FAQ: How Many Applications Does It Take To Get a Job?
Written by Sabina Macari | Updated December 10, 2025

Many candidates spend several weeks or even months searching for the right job for them. Sending out multiple applications each week that you customize based on a specific position can increase your chances of finding a job. If you're currently searching, it's important to vary your time between submitting applications and completing other tasks that can help you secure employment and develop your skill set.   

How many applications does it take to get a job?
The number of job applications you might send out before getting a job can vary. Finding the right job can sometimes require candidates to send out many applications to different employers. The specific number of applications you send depends on many factors, including the current economic conditions and your years of experience in the field. During less competitive times of the year, you may be able to secure an interview more quickly than you otherwise would.   

How many applications can I send each week?
It's often beneficial to apply to ten to fifteen different jobs each week, or two to three jobs per day. Sending out two to three job applications each day can help you increase your chances of receiving attention from hiring managers at the companies to which you apply. With two or three applications each day, you can make sure that you're able to customize each job application based on the specific company and position.   

Since many companies use an applicant tracking system (ATS), it's often beneficial to review each job posting for keywords that you can include in your documents before submitting your applications. Many companies use an ATS specifically to remove applications that don't match their specific requirements from the selection process.   

How can you increase your chances of getting a job?
Limit your job search: Work on applying for specific roles in the industries or sectors you're qualified in, rather than submitting a wide variety of applications to jobs that might not interest you.

Read the basic requirements: Before applying, review the basic qualifications and make sure that you have those experiences or skills. Hiring managers usually only advance candidates if they meet fundamental requirements.

Incorporate keywords into your resume: Include keywords relevant to the position and industry to increase your chances of an ATS processing your application.

Emphasize your unique qualifications: Highlight your unique skills, experiences, traits, and achievements throughout your application to distinguish yourself from other candidates.

Include only the most relevant information: Minimize listing skills or experiences that are more relevant to a different job type and instead highlight specific in-demand traits.

Submit a cover letter: Send a cover letter with each application, even if not specifically requested. It presents an opportunity to explain your achievements in greater detail or discuss gaps in your resume.

Edit your application: Reread your application to search for spelling errors, typos, and other minor mistakes before submitting.

How long does it take to find a job on average?
According to the United States Bureau of Labor Statistics, the average length of unemployment as of April 2023 was 20.9 weeks or a little over five months. The exact time it might take you to secure a job can vary based on factors including your years of experience, credentials, and location.

Is it okay to apply for two jobs at the same company?
It's acceptable to apply for multiple positions at the same company because employers might still consider you for the other role, even if your current qualifications don't necessarily align with what they want for the first position.