OceanofPDF.com





Title Page


				CAREER ROAD MAP

				52 weeks of career coaching in one book


John Lees





	OceanofPDF.com





Publisher Information


				First edition published in 2016 by

				AUK Authors

				An imprint of

				Andrews UK Limited

				www.andrewsuk.com

				© Copyright 2016 John Lees

				The right of John Lees to be identified as the author of this work has been asserted by him in accordance with the Copyright, Designs and Patents Act 1998.

				All rights reserved. No reproduction, copy or transmission of this publication may be made without express prior written permission. No paragraph of this publication may be reproduced, copied or transmitted except with express prior written permission or in accordance with the provisions of the Copyright Act 1956 (as amended). Any person who commits any unauthorised act in relation to this publication may be liable to criminal prosecution and civil claims for damage.

				The opinions expressed herein are those of the author and do not necessarily reflect those of AUK Authors or Andrews UK.

				The publisher cannot be held responsible for any decisions made by the reader, and disclaim any responsibility for any liability, loss, or risk, personal or otherwise, which is incurred as a consequence of the use of application of content within this book.





	OceanofPDF.com





Introduction


				There are many times in a career where short pieces of advice come in useful, whether you’re looking for a new job, thinking about leaving your current role, or trying to make progress inside an organisation.

				Here are 52 short pieces aimed to provide vital short-cuts, help you out of a fix, re-energise your job search or interview planning, or to rethink the way you manage your career. They are based on weekly articles which originally appeared in the UK daily newspaper Metro.

				My thanks to the editorial team at Metro for commissioning these pieces. I hope you find them useful.

				You can also find all kinds of free resources and advice at my website www.johnleescareers.com

				John Lees





	OceanofPDF.com





About the Author


				John Lees is one of the UK’s best-known career strategists. How To Get A Job You Love regularly lists as the best-selling careers handbook by a British author.

				John is the author of a range of career titles published by McGraw-Hill and Pearson (including Career Reboot, Take Control of Your Career, Job Interviews: Top Answers To Tough Questions, Knockout CV, The Interview Expert, Just The Job!) Other titles include Secrets of Resilient People (Hodder & Stoughton), and The Success Code (John Murray Learning, 2016).

				John Lees Associates helps career changers across the UK, and John is a regular keynote speaker at UK events, has presented at the world’s largest international career conferences and run career events in the USA, South Africa, Germany, Switzerland, Mauritius, Australia and New Zealand.

				John appears regularly in the UK national press with features in Management Today, Cosmopolitan, Psychologies, Coaching at Work and The Sunday Times. TV appearances include the BBC interactive ‘Back to Work’ programme, BBC 2’s ‘Working Lunch’, Channel 4’s ‘Dispatches’, and ITV’s ‘Tonight - How To Get A Job’). He is a regular blog contributor to Harvard Business Review online and in 2012 wrote the introduction to the HBR Guide to Getting the Right Job.

				John is a graduate of the universities of Cambridge, London and Liverpool, and has spent most of his career focusing on the world of work. He has trained recruitment specialists since the mid-1980s, and is the former Chief Executive of the Institute of Employment Consultants (now the IRP). He has worked with a wide range of organisations on career management issues and is a regular speaker at business schools across the UK.

				John is a Fellow of the CIPD and an Honorary Fellow of the Institute of Recruitment Professionals. He served as Joint Chair of the Association of Career Professionals-UK (2011-13) and as a founding Board Director of the Career Development Institute (CDI).

				Outside work John loves photography, and has qualified as an Associate (ARPS) of the Royal Photographic Society.





	OceanofPDF.com





Time for a Change?


				It’s Sunday night. You’re packing your work bag, and a movie runs in your head called ‘Five Days Until Friday’. What kind of movie is it? A road movie? An adventure comedy? Or a horror film?

				At least half the workforce gets the Sunday Night Work Blues - we know this because more people post online CVs on Sunday than any other time of the week. If you feel unsure whether it’s worth getting up on Monday morning, perhaps it’s time to think about a change.

				You may think the automatic next step is finding a new job, but how about shaping or changing your job, perhaps even learning to love the job you’ve got? Many people change jobs for all the wrong reasons, and the big important skill set we never acquire is managing your career from the inside - creating new opportunities and reshaping your job. Often simply adding new content to your job mix will refresh your week. What’s more, it can quickly remotivate you and change the way others see you in the workplace.

				It’s easy to get in a rut in any job. Perhaps it’s become repetitive, or you’ve stopped learning. You might feel you’re only giving 75% to the job, and worried that someone might notice. Or you are overwhelmed with work, and can’t see what matters any more. So you mention it to your friend over lunch, who gives you the same advice as your family: Stick it out. Keep your head down. Stay in your safe job until things get better.

				The problem is, even when you’ve accepted this advice and decided to hunker down for another year, you’re still in a rut. It might even be a velvet rut - just a little too comfortable.

				And what do you do? You look at job ads. Not in an enthusiastic, active kind of way, but just to prove to yourself how few roles are out there, and how lucky you are to be in a safe, boring job. So you put your head down again, and before long it’s Sunday night again...

				Here are some strategies that help exceptional people take control of their working lives. Firstly, review – what have you achieved in the last 12 months? What have you added to your job? What can you do that you couldn’t do a year ago? Reflect with a friend who’s good at reminding you what you’re good at. What’s your contribution, and has it been noticed? Your pitch to your employer begins ‘this is how I have made a difference...’

				Secondly, negotiate ways to reshape your job. This could mean new learning opportunities or experience, or fresh contacts. Don’t present your request as a puzzle or a complaint - managers have other things to worry about - and don’t issue ultimatums. Present small to moderate suggestions for small alterations to your job. Offer them as a sensible ‘deal’ between what you want to get out of work and what your employer wants to get out of you.





	OceanofPDF.com





I’m Still Looking for My Dream Job...


				I love listening to career conversations in coffee shops. Today I overhear to friends say how boring their jobs are. One says ‘Why don’t you look for something different?’ Her friend replies ‘What I do now gets me down, but it pays the mortgage. However if my ideal job comes along...’

				Some people really do have a specific dream job. They can name it, point to people who are doing it, but they are perfectly happy keeping it at a distance like an exclusive resort on the other side of the world - so far away you give yourself permission to do absolutely nothing about getting there.

				Other job dreamers haven’t yet found a label to hang round their idea. In their coffee shop meditations they say that they want to do ‘a job that makes a difference’ or is ‘a bit more creative’. They’ll know it when they see it, they claim, which again is a perfect excuse to never really begin looking. Every year there are new distractions, and before long you’re coasting towards retirement.

				A third category of people who play with the dream job idea put everything off until later - deferred gratification, psychologists call it. You deal with an unfulfilling career by working hard now in the hope of doing something interesting later (perhaps when the mortgage is paid off or the kids have left home). For many of us the dream job conversation is really saying ‘Don’t disturb me - I’m happy being miserable’.

				Finally you can of course set the bar higher than you can reach to prove to yourself that being happy in work is a myth. If you pick nearly unreachable jobs (astronaut, TV presenter, Formula 1 driver) you can fall back on the nation’s favourite career game - ‘either I do something I enjoy doing 100% of the time or I have a job that pays the bills’. The danger with seeing the world in black and white like this is that you miss out interesting colours.

				Listen in to career conversations and you’ll hear how often people play the dream job game, and then quickly lower their sights or allow others to trample over good ideas. It’s easy to accept that the idea of fulfilling work is a romantic distraction from the gritty reality of getting and keeping a job.

				Here’s a thought. You don’t need a perfect job. That’s simply your way of preventing yourself looking. Every job is a compromise and will include some uninspiring tasks. You don’t need a job you love five days a week. 31/2 days out of 5 seems to do the trick.

				Next time you float and then sink your job ideas, try some different approaches.

				First of all, let go of job titles. Start to think about job elements that you might find combined in a wide range of roles. Ask your friends to play ‘Ready Steady Cook’ with your work ingredients and follow up on suggestions and leads.

				Secondly, think about what gets in the way. Most of us believe that making a career change is the biggest barrier. However if you ask people who have found roles they enjoy, you’ll discover the toughest step isn’t applying for a job, it’s picking up the phone, reaching out to someone doing what you’d love to do. Talk to real people in real jobs, find out how people made career breakthroughs, and spot pitfalls on the way. Discover the skills required by new jobs and sectors, and you start to understand how to describe your experience in attractive terms. Research, rather than job search, is the key - but through face-to-face conversations not the Internet.

				This week you may spend 70-80% of your waking energy on work. Work takes up such a huge part of our life that it might just be worth looking for something that puts a spring in your step on a Monday morning.





	OceanofPDF.com





From Study Into Work


				First job moves

				Sacha is depressed by lack of success chasing graduate roles. ‘I can’t even get an interview even though my CV lists strong qualifications. What’s the point of three years’ study if I’m starting at the bottom?’

				There’s no magic bullet, but you can aim at two targets: shortening your job search time, and finding a job which may not be the job of your dreams but is a good learning experience, broadens your skill set and adds to your CV. To get that role you’re going to need an above-average job search technique.

				Firstly, take every opportunity to talk to employers who are interested in meeting new talent. Graduate job fairs and other employer events are highly recommended to help you spot opportunities, but don’t just pick up leaflets and go home. Build your confidence by taking opportunities to talk about yourself briefly, and pick up on the language employers want to hear. Take opportunities to speak to people who were hired as new graduates 2-3 years ago and learn from their histories.

				Think about your message. Most CVs for market entrants over-emphasise examination results, something employers don’t find terribly exciting. Long lists of modules go unread. Affirm in a range of evidence that you’re smart enough to benefit from training, open to new ideas, can cope with the unexpected - but give plenty of evidence that you’re a fast learner.

				A hallmark of someone new to the labour market is the CV cliché. People who would curl up in disgust at a cheesy chat-up line describe themselves to employers as highly motivated, results driven, and self-starter - all empty language which screams out ‘untested material - approach with care’.

				What should you say about personality? Find terms that employers find realistic and useful, so less ‘bubbly and outgoing’ and more ‘interested in the needs of customers’, less ‘up for anything’ and more ‘able to respond flexibly in a fast moving work environment’.

				Savvy candidates leaving the world of study, at whatever age, know that a CV works best if it’s a fresh, honest statement of what you have done well, and what you have achieved. Remind yourself of achievements from work, volunteering, or learning - these simple narratives of problems solved, challenges accepted and results obtained put you ahead of the game.

				At interviews and in your CV your opening bid should always be about skills. Interrogate all work you’ve done, including holiday jobs and unpaid work, but pull out skills, know-how, and evidence of the right attitude. Set up a LinkedIn profile for work search purposes, outlining your main areas of skill, knowledge and expertise. If you’re struggling to find words that feel right, look at advertisements and job documentation for live examples.

				Leading with strong evidence of skills you have actually used and sectors you know something about will start to get you results. Your CV can then move to qualifications to reveal their true value. Almost any subject will ‘fly’ at interview if you have a clear reason for choosing it and you can show how your studies have improved your strengths. Draw out relevant expertise from your education history (for example analysis, investigation, creating and shaping teams, communicating, influencing, negotiating). Presented in employer language, your studies can open more doors than you think.





	OceanofPDF.com





The Lonely Job Hotel


				Getting seen in a tough market

				Will has been looking for a job for 7 months and feeling low. He plays his trump card: ‘Let’s be realistic John - if there aren’t enough jobs to go around, what’s the point of job searching?’

				I’m tempted to jump on that word realistic - too often jobseekers have a distorted sense of market reality, based on media gloom or random results from a disorganised job search. But I take Will’s main point on the chin.

				‘Will’, I say, ‘three years ago people fell into jobs. They went to the market with a strategy that was just about working, and found jobs that were just about right. Today a lack-lustre job search will net you virtually nothing.’

				Will is looking glum, so I tell him about the job hotel. ‘Will, three years ago you were made redundant and found yourself in the job hotel. You stood in the lobby looking vague, but people came up to you and offered you things. The big, well-signposted conference rooms just off the lobby were full of exhibitions and presentations. The help desks were manned by helpful hotel staff. People were lining up to offer you invitations and find out more about you.’

				‘This year you went back to the job hotel and the lobby was full of people who had lost their luggage and missed their flights. Everyone is shouting at the same time trying to solve their own problems. The only person available to help is the night porter, who doesn’t speak English and doesn’t know where the keys are kept. There may be helpful people around, but nothing is signposted and all the doors are locked. You and several hundred people are knocking on doors that probably won’t open, getting no answers, and eventually you end up commiserating with each other in the bar. Yet amidst all the chaos, some people arrive, get what they want, and leave. How did they do that?’

				The analogy is imperfect, but at least Will smiles. He’s starting to get my point. There are times when the job hotel is kind to the passive traveller - you will be processed and packaged. When a storm comes and the power lines are down, the hotel is packed with people it can’t help. The customers who get a result are the ones who go off-limits, the ones who go down the road to somewhere else, the ones who organise, improvise, and seek hidden solutions, even if that means exploring in broom cupboards or the closed hotel ballroom.

				In tough times, ‘something will come along’ doesn’t cut it. It can lead to a distinctly unhealthy cycle of joblessness and discouragement. Today’s job seeker is looking for a killer CV, for knockout interview answers, but finding the right fit requires not just perseverance, but new ways of thinking.

				In a tough market, every appointment is a niche appointment. You need an edge, some inside information, the ability to make yourself look like the solution to an employer’s biggest headache.

				There are roles out there: employers still say they are looking for enthusiastic and capable people and don’t know how to find them. The right jobs are hard to find. They are unlikely to be advertised, so finding them is often much more about tracking down opportunities for conversations with decision-makers as much as seeking identifiable vacancies.

				Finding a job that suits you isn’t easy, but that doesn’t mean you stop looking or revert to ‘spray and pray’ activity. Today’s job seeker needs laser-guided applications, not blanket bombing. Two immediate don’ts come to mind: don’t spend all day at your computer when you could be meeting people, and don’t apply for jobs you care little about ‘just for the practice’ (rejection is rejection).

				Undertake career exploration as if you were doing it for someone else –staying curious, always asking for connections and ideas, and taking rejection as part of the deal.





	OceanofPDF.com





Timing Your Job Search Campaign


				Parminder knew some months back that her job was coming to an end. ‘Plenty of time to line up a new job’, she told me, ‘...after I’ve done a good hand-over’. When the first day of unemployment arrived she effectively started from scratch. She says: ‘I wasted useful conversations complaining about being laid off, not job hunting’.

				Tomasz has a different kind of timing problem. He hit the deck running as soon as he knew he was going to be made redundant. Everyone told him to ‘get out there’ without delay, so he posted out a hastily-adapted version of the CV he used 5 years ago, but it places a huge emphasis on the job he’s just left, rather than the job he wants. He registered with three agencies, and persuaded some good contacts to meet him for coffee - without knowing what he was going to say when he got there. Put off by lack of results, he now plans to rely on internet job sites.

				Timing matters in any job search - rush things and you plan badly, leave things too long and you lose energy. If you throw yourself at the market without planning your applications scream out ‘I don’t know what I have to offer or what I’m looking for, but I need a job!’ - no help if you want to stand out from the crowd. Too many people shoot first and aim later, wasting good conversations by using them as rehearsals for the real event. That way all your best contacts and opportunities are used up in the first month - just at the time you’re recovering from feeling low about unemployment and learning, very tentatively, how to pitch yourself. Ouch.

				The second danger is misjudging the emotional impact of job search. Your first jobless Monday at home may feel very odd. The phone isn’t ringing, no one is asking for your advice, and your self-esteem crashes. You may feel angry at the organisation that let you go, or disillusioned by the lack of advertised jobs. These are the undertones that leak out in your first meetings. These useful first stage contacts won’t remember you for your skills and abilities, for your curiosity about particular sectors, or what you want to do next. They’ll remember your bad luck story.

				Talk your story out of your system with good friends. Filter out disappointment or bitterness before putting yourself in front of decision makers. This may feel tough, but what really helps is to carefully prepare answers that dig you out of a hole, especially the almost throw-away line ‘so why are you on the market right now?’ Resist the temptation to score points or air grievances. Learn upbeat answers that shift the focus from past to present: ‘When the organisation restructured for the third time that year my role went along with dozens of others, but it’s given me a chance to think about the kind of role I really want to do. The reason I find this job attractive is...’

				Other tactics that will help you get your timing right:-

				 					When friends cut out job ads for you for the kind of job you never want to do again, say thank you, then describe what you’re really looking for.

					Resist advice to ‘take any kind of job’ - you’ll be struggling to explain your CV in 5 years time if you do so.

					Don’t use up opportunities to talk to your best contacts until you have got a clear idea of what you are going to say to them about your future.

					Begin with active research - map the territory before sending out job applications.



				If you’re feeling bruised, use the first few weeks to do background research while you talk through your feelings (and options) with trusted friends. Save your best contacts until you can pitch yourself and your career ‘offer’ in under 3 minutes.





	OceanofPDF.com





Writing a Winning CV


				‘My CV isn’t working’, David complains, having sent 10 out this week with no response. He’s already started redrafting, but my response is ‘how do you know what’s working, and what isn’t?’ The most common feedback candidates receive from the job market is silence. You upload or email your CV and get back... nothing. So you tweak it, reshape it, and try again. Any comments you receive are often contradictory (leave out/ put in a profile/ qualifications/ your hobbies...). How do you begin to write a CV that will push open the door to the interview room?

				Try this. Place your CV face down. Ask a friend to take notes while you talk for 5 minutes about the things you would like an employer to know about you. Begin with personality aspects, but also mention what you’re good at, and what you’ve done well. Get your friend to read out the highlights. Now turn your CV over - does any of this information appear in the first 30 words?

				CVs are vital in getting you into an interview room, but no one looks forward to reading them. The best sound fresh and are full of evidence of applied learning and achievement, but most are dull, chopped-up job descriptions, ego trips, or so full of clichés (self starter, team player, customer-focused) that make you sound as if you have no work experience at all.

				If you’re trying to change sector, it’s important that the document starts with a crisp, clear summary of your background, strengths, achievements, and transferable skills. Write a short, objective profile which outlines past experience, your present mix of skills and knowledge, and the kind of role you’d like in the future. Candidates are often unaware that agencies generally dislike these CV profiles (they want an unfiltered history so they can sell you to employers). However if you’re pitching directly to an employer a profile helps set the scene before you become pigeon-holed by past job titles. A profile replaces what you’d say if you were handing the CV over in person: ‘before you read this, I’d like you to know...’

				Move quickly into concrete evidence of achievement, beginning each bullet point with an active verb (e.g. ‘led’, ‘organised’, ‘initiated’). Don’t waste ink listing skills which could be performed by someone more junior - ask yourself ‘so what?’ against every claim. Don’t oversupply information or make things complicated. A decision is usually formed about two-thirds down page 1, so don’t waste that space listing school qualifications or details of jobs you don’t want to repeat. Decide what key messages you want to get across and - without leaving gaps - minimise unimportant details.

				If you’re not getting short listed, the probability is that your CV is letting you down by doing at least one of the 6 things employers find off-putting:

				 					Your CV is not tailored to the role - either in terms of content (right skills and knowledge) or style (the information is hard to find and not in language an employer finds it easy to buy into. Avoid impenetrable acronyms or jargon, and match yourself clearly to the top 5 or 6 items on the employer shopping list.

					Your CV oversells, perhaps embarrassingly. Avoid endless adjectives, CV clichés (‘individualist but also a team player’) - focus on what you have done rather than what you think you are like.

					You offer empty claims. Employers dislike profiles full of vague self-praise, so back details up with hard evidence.

					Over-fussy presentation. Use a simple layout with plenty of white space. Use bullet points, vary them in length

					Weaker CVs tend to be a rehash of past job descriptions. Stronger ones write about achievements and show what you added to each role.

					You’ll quickly be rejected if your career history makes no sense (show how all your learning, work experience and temporary jobs fit into a coherent career ‘story’).





	OceanofPDF.com





Gaps and Breaks


				Dealing with CV problems

				Career breaks are less popular than they have been, but if you have ever taken one you’ll need to address it at interview, along with anything that looks like a gap, road bump or distraction from a conventional career path.

				Take Angela, for example. ‘I took two years out in my 20s to do some travelling’, she says, ‘and interviewers still treat me as if I’m some kind of flight risk!’

				Taking a career break can be a life-affirming event, but it’s easy to see why employers get twitchy about them. It can seem that your focus will always be on self-discovery rather than a career. You might give the impression that as soon as you have saved up enough money, you’ll be off on another jaunt.

				Many successful people in the workplace have at taken at least one career break. Some have negotiated these breaks so skilfully that they have managed to go back to their old job. When talking about these experiences, strong candidates bring out several factors. Firstly, they show that this was a deliberate choice, not something they drifted into. They talk about the complicated planning and people skills required to make the career break happen. They talk clearly about what they learned from the experience, and how it changed them.

				And finally they talk about how this time away from work has reshaped their attitude to the job, by showing how they have a whole new range of qualities to bring to the workplace - sometimes this includes awareness of other cultures or working methods. A career break or gap year should also demonstrate confidence and an ability to make things happen, often through good planning and negotiation skills, and will often be a good way of showing that you can improvise solutions under pressure - and on a shoestring budget.

				Other life experiences can be equally difficult to get across - taking time out for family reasons, for learning, or to write your novel... Handled the wrong way you can easily sound as if you have very little interest in paid work. Pitched the right way, this information can make you a memorable candidate with something to offer.

				The best way to handle information about gaps and breaks is to show that each step was chosen - you had an action plan, and stuck to it. Employers respect that and will want to know what you got out of it, but have little sympathy if it sounds like you took a gap year because you couldn’t think of anything else to do.

				Whatever the event, be clear about what you want to do next. An interviewer will assume a lack of commitment to career planning - unless you make it absolutely clear that you are now focused entirely on the next steps of your working life. That, too, should sound like a firm decision, not one forced on you because of lack of funds.

				If your career break was recent, talk long-term so that an employer hears you’re now firmly committed to the job, buzzing with renewed motivation. If your break was some time back, learn how to talk about it as a useful learning event that eventually gave you a renewed focus on getting as much out of work as you have got out of other choices.





	OceanofPDF.com





Is Your CV Full of Clichés?


				Ellen is scratching her head over an email she has received from a recruiter friend. ‘Apparently my CV is full of clichés’, she says, ‘but since I’m using phrases that employers immediately understand, why is that a problem?’

				Too many candidates use empty CV phrases lifted from standard CVs and cover letters found on the Internet. It’s important to express your achievements in clear language that an employer not only understands but finds relevant, and there’s nothing wrong with plain terms that do exactly that. However too many candidates either try to impress or don’t know how to get their best points across, so fall back on cliché.

				Clichés have their usefulness. ‘Thinking outside the box’ was a term used in the advertising industry to communicate beyond the frame of an advertising billboard. ‘Pushing the envelope’ described the rectangular shape on a graph representing an aeroplane’s maximum speed and range.

				In a CV, however, tired off-the-shelf language shouts out ‘nothing new here - same as everyone else’. Many older candidates fall back on CV language such as ‘hard working’ and ‘enthusiastic’ - this makes you sound like someone leaving full-time education, offering potential but little work experience.

				Often clichés underline the idea that you don’t have anything original to say. Think about the CV clichés you’re tempted to use, and then consider the way an employer reacts to them. A classic, ‘individualist but also good at working with others’ fails to impress: covering all bases simply says you’re like everyone else.

				Perhaps the most over-used is ‘highly motivated’. Why wouldn’t you be, in today’s demanding workplace? An employer thinks why are you making this bland statement rather than showing me hard evidence? Others throw in words like ‘commercial’ or ‘results-oriented’ without offering appropriate examples.

				The next big cliché is ‘self starter’. Does that mean you’re itching to start your own business? What does this say about your relationships with past managers? How well do your respond to targets you haven’t set yourself?

				Saying you’re a ‘people person’ could simply suggest you like chatting with friends at work.

				Other CV phrases make you look just slightly too eager to please, if not downright desperate (e.g. ‘flexible’, or ‘available for interview at short notice’).

				Strong CVs make claims, but then back them up with evidence. Smarter job hunters realise that trying to sell your personality on paper sets you up to fail. Stating that you are ‘honest’ can raise worries about why you raise the issue, and stating that you are ‘punctual’ or ‘reliable’ sounds weak compared to a well-documented work history, which doesn’t need to be extensive to show clearly that you turn up and get the job done.

				‘References available on request’. Why waste a line stating the obvious? Even ‘team player’ can be close to meaningless CV noise. What kind of player in what kind of team?

				You may use hackneyed terms because you’re struggling to find authentic words to describe what you do. One strategy is to read job advertisements and descriptions for the kind of roles you are seeking, and borrow phrases that capture what you have to offer, sound good, and seem to be in the right language. Make fewer claims and offer more evidence matched to the employer’s shopping list, and you’ll get more interviews.





	OceanofPDF.com





Mentioning Interests and Hobbies in an Application


				Davina is not sure whether it’s worth mentioning interests outside work when applying for a job. ‘I’ve been told that my hobbies sound boring’, she says, ‘and I should either leave them out or say something which will capture the interviewer’s attention.’ It’s worth thinking about whether you should mention sport, hobbies and other interests on a CV, and what you should say about them at interview.

				Too many CVs offer the bland combination of ‘reading, travel, eating out’. Who doesn’t enjoy these? Beware of saying anything that suggests you are an average candidate with low-impact interests hardly worth a line of print.

				So why mention non-work activity at all? Recruiters often talk of wanting to see ‘fully rounded’ candidates who can show that they are motivated by things outside work, because this tends to show people who have a work-life balance which can sustain challenge and pressure.

				These interests can also provide powerful evidence of transferable skills - for example organising volunteers or fundraising shows the ability to handle delicate negotiations, and any kind of leadership, even if it’s a walking group or a sports team, shows an ability to set goals and manage people.

				Mention activities which demonstrate achievement. Excellence in sport will often attract an interviewer’s attention, but talk about anything where you demonstrate enthusiastic participation. This is easy where you’ve led or coached a sports team, but even with more solitary activities you can talk about organising events, tracking down rare items or interesting people, and doing something to the best of your ability.

				Too many candidates mention interests which are no longer valid or things they have little enthusiasm for. If you mention reading, what will you say if you’re asked about the best book you’ve read this year? If you’ve mentioned theatre, can you talk about something you’ve seen recently? Travel - what did you do that was unusual? Be careful not to list things which you did a long time ago - it reinforces the idea that your best achievements are a long time in the past.

				So, whatever interests you list in your CV, apply three filters.

				Firstly, are the activities and hobbies you mention relevant to the job? If the link is obvious, mention it in a covering letter. If this evidence brings out strong skills such as leadership, event management, or your abilities as an organiser, consider bringing that evidence onto page one of your CV rather than tucking it at the back like a footnote.

				Secondly, list things that the employer wants to see. Mention activities that involve active participation, particularly those involving other people. Stressing community engagement also reinforces the idea you don’t spend all your time alone. If the job requires great communication skills, show where you have used them both in an out of work.

				Finally, can you talk about what you have done with real enthusiasm? Interviewers listen to the energy of what you say as much as content, and showing you are motivated on many levels shows how you will hit the ground running in a new job.

				Remember not to pack out the ‘interests’ section of your CV with so many time-consuming obsessions you look as if you don’t have room for work in your life.





	OceanofPDF.com





Research Before Job Search


				Krishna is one week into a job search, and has been advised not to apply for jobs without doing some planning. ‘So,’ he asks in frustration, ‘If I’m not applying for jobs, what on earth should I be doing?’

				Too many candidates have no plan other than throwing themselves randomly at vacancies, often with negative results. Smarter job seekers think carefully about what they have to offer, and begin a coherent career story, while simultaneously undertaking background research on great target organisations.

				Career change often means starting with blank maps, but discovering organisations makes you better informed and starting to make connections. Looking for organisations rather than vacancies helps you spot business needs - organisations who have a short-term headache, unresolved problems, or unexploited opportunities. Smaller employers may be on the brink of creating a job, or others may be about to fill jobs because of growth or staff turnover.

				You might find organisations that pep up your CV, but look hard for organisations that interest you. It’s easy to hit setbacks and people who are too busy to return your call, but if a target employer feels like an exciting prospect, your enthusiasm gives you the energy to keep investigating - and ensures you’re remembered.

				Don’t neglect job ads, either in print or online, because any organisation that is hiring is broadcasting their needs and wants. Desk research, supplemented with some well-placed conversations, helps you decode organisations and understand the kind of people they are looking for - well before you apply for a job. Good investigation gets under the skin of what it’s like to work for a business, so ideally will include conversations with past or present workers - so if you ever apply you have useful inside knowledge, and if you apply elsewhere you can show an above-average understanding of the sector.

				Get a feel for the terminology organisations use to describe their worlds. It can become part of your interview vocabulary, but can also show you how to translate your experience into language that a new employer is capable of hearing. This is ultimately the only way that skills become transferable - when you pitch them in terms a new organisation recognises and finds relevant. Finding out what’s out there gives you something to aim at, but also starts to help write your script.

				Krishna disagrees with my plan, asking ‘what’s the point of having lists of organisations that don’t have any vacancies?’ Firstly, these investigations give you a sense of real organisations within reach. You begin to edge towards the people you need to talk to, and you get tangible information about what’s happening in the market place, plus real evidence about how the market will interpret your work history. Secondly, research helps you to start to make solid choices about your next career move, and will uncover sectors and organisations you’ve never heard of.

				Keep an open mind while exploring; avoid ruling things out immediately. It’s all too easy to give career ideas the brush-off before proper investigation.

				Research before job search provides you with better maps and helps you make better choices. It’s about finding out for yourself, which in turn helps ensure you are remembered. Don’t start your job search plan looking for vacancies - dig out the right employer before the job comes up.





	OceanofPDF.com





Keeping Things Simple


				Don’t overcomplicate your history

				Jack has switched from accounting to marketing to general management. ‘People say my qualifications and background are impressive,’ he says, ‘but they don’t ask me back.’ His degree doesn’t seem to relate to any jobs he has held. Jack shrugs: ‘It’s what I always say - I’m complicated...’

				Some candidates celebrate their disconnected if not random history, or pack CVs with strange claims (obscure qualifications, arcane hobbies, their IQ, names of pets). They just love that slightly exclusive feeling of being complex, even if it’s just an excuse for not marketing themselves properly.

				Remember the recruiter perspective. Reading CVs is one of the dullest tasks on the planet, employing a checklist of no more than half a dozen ‘must have’ items. Prospective employers have a template in mind - skills, sector knowledge, experience in relevant organisations, previous job roles held. If you broadly match that list, you’ll probably get short-listed. Your CV probably contains about 100 items of information, and 20-30 might come up at interview. Once you’ve left the interview it’s unlikely that more than handful of items will be remembered. We commit to buying decisions for two or three reasons, not a hundred.

				Four years ago the job market was tolerant of ‘complicated’. People like Jack with unconventional histories often made it to spot five or six on an agency shortlist, or came across to employers as left-field talent worthy of attention. The market has become far more conservative as it has tightened, wanting near-identikit candidates. ‘Jack’, the feedback goes, ‘we were really interested in your unusual background, but...’ Worse still, the reaction Jack often gets is ‘we really didn’t understand your CV or what you might be looking for’.

				If you’re one of those people who revels in being slightly eccentric or someone who keeps apologising for surprises in your job history, you might like to rethink.

				You may be asked why you have had a ‘number of careers’, especially if your work history might be described as ‘chequered’ (recruiter shorthand for ‘never settled down’). Find someone to talk this issue through with, well before you sit in front of a decision maker. Don’t undervalue yourself (‘I was just temping’) or begin by saying ‘this may not make sense to you...my CV’s a bit of a jumble sale’.

				Doing well in a tough job market is often about managing the information that travels without you. If your name comes up in a work conversation, how would someone summarise your skills, know-how - reasons why you’d be a good hiring decision?

				Recruiters, both in-house and agency, like simplicity. Don’t overwhelm them with information, particularly if it’s conflicting. Get the right messages across, quickly, and match them to the employer’s big ticket items.

				Think about everything you offer as your career story. Beginning, middle and end should all make sense. If your story is unconventional (changes of direction, dropping out of study, qualifications that don’t seem to relate to each other) don’t apologise, but communicate the bullet points of your story. Although you may have done many jobs, you only have one career. Talk about that one story in a way that makes sense. Don’t make your story sound like a badly edited movie. Show how things you learned while studying have provided useful underpinning skills. Most courses of study require good organisation, analysis, persuasion and communication skills, problem solving and investigation - but these are often missing in evidence.

				Jobs may have far more in common than you think. Explain how roles relate to each other, even temporary posts (by talking about the big themes, e.g. ‘my career has been all about customer service’). Give a valid reason for why you took each job as a learning experience. Most importantly, think about the way your career story turns from present to future - the job you are applying for today should sound like the best and most sensible next stage of your journey.





	OceanofPDF.com





The Lowdown on Cover Letters


				Sandi’s email asks me a challenging question: ‘When most job applications are online do I still need a cover letter? If I do, what should the letter say when all the most important information is in my CV?’

				The reason cover letters (or a cover email if you’re sending your CV electronically) are still necessary is your absence. If you were in the room when your CV was being read you’d hand it over with a short speech along the lines of “here are some things you might like to know about”. If you were really smart you might delay handing over the document until you’d explained why you’re interested in the opportunity.

				You won’t be in the room when your CV is read, which is why it needs to be clear, interesting, cliché-free, and as closely related to the job on offer as it can be. Which is where the problem lies. It’s often very hard - and time-consuming - to completely rewrite a CV for every job, and it can make the CV feel rather fake.

				At the same time, CVs are often read by busy people when they are tired - in the evening or on a commute. These busy gatekeepers want to short list quickly with as little hassle as possible, so they’re always going to prefer those candidates who closely fit the profile, and be reluctant to give the benefit of the doubt to those who don’t.

				A good cover note can put you on the right side of that decision by drawing the reader’s attention to half a dozen important pieces of information.

				Before pinning down what cover letters should contain, be aware of where they often go very wrong. Sometimes they’re self regarding, often they are vague and off the point, and many are too long, repeating a complete work history and repeatedly arguing a case, which makes them feel like rambling begging letters.

				So what works? Keep it brief. On an A4 page your letter shouldn’t take up much more than half a page. On screen, someone should be able to read it without scrolling down.

				Secondly, make it really, really focused. Interrogate the job ad and role description. Ask around, do your homework until you can itemise the top things the employer needs to see. Write them down and match them against your best pieces of evidence. Now shape them into six tight, clear bullet points, avoiding using the same text as the CV itself.

				Write a short introductory paragraph naming the job, quoting any reference number, and saying where you heard about it. Next write a sentence outlining your strong interest in the role. Don’t gush, don’t sell, but be clear that you’re keen and this role builds on your experience.

				Next, the main part of your letter, refer the reader to your attached CV and say you’d like to draw their attention to six features in your CV (or thereabouts - three or less underplays the role, more than eight pushes too hard), and list your bullets. Job done. If the evidence is matched and clear, you’re already close to being short-listed.

				Add a final line expressing an interest in taking the conversation further, and then go back to the job information and double check that you have tackled the right needs with the best facts at your fingertips.





	OceanofPDF.com





Working Out the Employer’s Hidden Wish List


				Improving your interview preparation

				Derek is mystified by the feedback he gets from interviews - ‘They tell me I’m not quite what they’re looking for, but I read all the job documents backwards and there’s nothing listed I can’t handle. What else can I do to get the job offer?’

				Derek believes he is preparing thoroughly, looking carefully at the advertisement and job description. He could do more. Stronger candidates match their personal evidence point by point against the requirements of the job, rehearsing great examples packed with hard evidence. Average candidates make broad claims, strong contenders back up each claim with clear evidence of past activity and outcomes.

				You could shrug your shoulders and say that in a tough market employer screening is going to be something of a lottery. That ignores the fact that well-prepared candidates are getting good job offers. What’s their secret? They have worked out the difference between the employer’s long stated list of requirements and the real shopping list - the things that really matter.

				A job interview will probably cover about 20 topics in any depth, providing only a sampling of your CV material, and possibly no more than 75% of the elements listed in a job description. Some of these topics may surprise you and find you unprepared, because they have either not been flagged up at all, or seem to be marginal to the job. Often you’ve given insufficient weighting to the issues that really count.

				What employers will rarely acknowledge is that most interview decisions are made around half a dozen pieces of evidence. These deal breakers may only be touched upon in documentation, but they matter. Moving towards a job offer means learning how to interrogate the clues you’re given, reading between the lines.

				You only start to do this when you ask questions of people who understand the role, organisation and sector. What problems does the job solve? What do success and failure look like in the role? Your best means of discovery is asking people outside the hiring process. Talk to former employees or contractors - anyone who knows something about the organisation. What kind of people shine in the workforce? What kind of candidate would shine? What is the employer most worried about in terms of hiring the wrong person? It’s useful to get insider information about what kind of person did the role beforehand - sometimes employers want a repeat performance, or a complete contrast.

				Look at details of jobs and projects on the employer’s website. Translate your experience into language that the employer will recognise. If your work history or qualifications don’t match perfectly, prepare clear explanations, perhaps beginning ‘I expect you’re worried about...’

				Recruitment consultants and others with good sector knowledge can help you in this important task of decoding. Don’t take anything at face value. If an employer claims to be recruiting against 30 competencies, they won’t be - somewhere in the interviewer’s mind will be half dozen things that really matter.

				If you’ve got an interview, you’re over half way to getting the job, so ask, probe, decode - do everything you can to find out the real wish list, the one you’re being scored against from the moment you walk in the room. Don’t come home until you’ve heard yourself delivering your half dozen best-matched pieces of evidence.





	OceanofPDF.com





A 30 Second Decision Might Get You a Job


				Managing first impressions

				Jane regularly gets first interviews but doesn’t get called back. She blames her CV, but those close to her have a hunch. Without knowing anything about job content, friends and family secretly know that Jane will probably return home jobless - and that decision will be made in the opening seconds of the interview.

				A huge proportion of interview success rests on the impact you make when you walk into the room. Right or wrong, the way you move and sit, your clothes and voice, are all taken as indicators of your future job performance.

				The idea that employers decide to hire or reject in the first 30 seconds of an interview is an urban myth. If it were true, interviews would be much shorter. What happens is that an interviewer makes initial decisions about your personality which are fairly hard to shake.

				Psychologists tell us that we make snap judgements whenever we meet someone new, based on minimal amounts of information. A famous study by Professor Nalini Ambady at Harvard University showed observers 10-second soundless videos of people delivering lectures. Ratings were given on the personality of each lecturer based on this tiny segment, but they turned out to be as accurate as the views of students who had listened to these lecturers for a full academic year.

				Research reveals that interviewers don’t make a complete, decisive hiring decision in the first few seconds of an interview, but they do make strong assumptions prompted by 3 strong factors.

				An interviewer makes an instinctive prediction from how personable you are - will you be easy to talk to, pleasant to work alongside, good at establishing relationships quickly? Secondly, a decision is made about how open you are. Do you readily respond to questions and volunteer information? Do you help the interview flow? Finally an interviewer makes a snap judgement about your walk-in appearance - do you look and sound the part?

				This opinion-shaping snapshot mostly happens during small talk in an interview when you’re off your guard. The conversation may begin in the lift, in the corridor, or as you are being settled in the interview room. Opening questions may focus on the weather, traffic, or about things you have in common. Getting a warm start at this point is far more than simple chat. Every response signals something important about what you bring to the party. We are more likely to trust our instincts when we feel comfortable, so making the interviewer feel good about the conversation matters.

				You might think this opening chemistry is entirely instinctive and outside your control. That’s a great way of keeping your head in the sand. Small adjustments to your interview performance and actually practising these opening moments make a huge difference. Be open and friendly - to everyone, particularly reception staff who may be asked for their opinion after you leave.

				Pace yourself - slowing down slightly helps you sound measured and confident, while nervous chatter suggests you are covering something up. Speak clearly and at a volume which matches the interviewer. Practise small talk, but also rehearse what you will say in the opening moments of the interview when someone asks one of the two classic questions: ‘tell us about yourself’ or ‘why are you interested in this role?’. Do your homework and show real interest in the organisation.

				When it comes to your walk-in appearance, planning is much easier. Check out the dress code of the organisation and try to look as if you already work there. Dress slightly conservatively (so you are remembered more than your outfit), and a touch more formally than employees already in post. Break in new clothes and shoes beforehand to avoid looking stiff. When you arrive, de-clutter - leave your coat, umbrella and bag in reception. Just take in a slim folder containing the documents you need, and you will look like an employee rather than a visitor.





	OceanofPDF.com





Can You Conquer Interview Nerves?


				Magda has an interview tomorrow, but is so nervous she’s thinking of not going: ‘My hands shake, my mouth dries up,’ she says, ‘I just go to pieces’.

				Interview stress isn’t just in the mind; your body can play tricks too - a damp handshake, shaking, clumsiness - these are all evident in candidates who haven’t found strategies to deal with the real impact of nervousness. The best communicators can find interviews stressful. Talking about products and services is fine, but talking about you leaves you with a lingering worry that you’ll be found wanting - or found out. Even if you have a strong track record it’s easy to feel that some of your success has been down to luck or faking it.

				Shaking hands? Clumsiness? Take only a simple folder into the interview room, move slowly and carefully to the offered seat, and don’t accept a drink unless you want to spill it. A dry mouth is better counteracted by sugar than water. Use an anti-perspirant on your palms for a drier handshake. Ring a friend 10 minutes before going into the interview and talk about why you want the job so you’re energised and really focused.

				Reduce your nerves by taking small steps to improve your performance. The first is to practise small talk. Interviewers decide very quickly if you’re easy to get on with and if you can establish relationships quickly. Loudly dominating the room suggests poor adaptation to teams, but sitting in timid near-silence signals a lack of enthusiasm for the role.

				80% of interview questions are predictable, but prepare most for the questions you hope won’t come up. Draw a line down the centre of an A4 pad. List on the left the employer’s requirements, and in the right column write a set of matching bullet points summarising your evidence, and then compose mini-narratives in your head to cover all these elements.

				Focus your preparation on words rather than information - plan and rehearse the actual phrases you will speak to begin each answer. Identify the top half dozen strengths an employer is seeking and decide in advance how will begin and end short stories which showcase relevant skills and experience. Avoid apologising for yourself, diminishing your contribution, and practise answers so they are uncomplicated.

				Proper preparation helps kill interview nerves because you won’t have to worry about whether your answers are appropriate or credible, and you can put your focus on careful listening, thinking ahead, and keeping eye contact so you maintain a relationship. Short, punchy answers will help the interviewer keep to her checklist, and will also help you to stay positive when it comes to tricky question areas such as why you left your last role or why you didn’t complete a course of study.

				Don’t use real job interviews as a testing ground: seek practice interviews with anyone with hiring experience, and seek tough, objective feedback. Video your rehearsal, listen to your performance, then watch it with the sound off to see what your body language says about your confidence and commitment.

				Forget the usual advice - ‘just be yourself’. Take small steps to improve each performance. Don’t believe you have to fake it. Do whatever it takes to reveal a slightly more positive, more energised self - you on a good day.





	OceanofPDF.com





Talking About Achievements


				Getting your best evidence across

				Rachel has a problem putting CV advice into practice. She realises she needs to write about tangible achievements, but she doesn’t know how: ‘I know I’m supposed to be quoting hard facts and figures, but all my achievements come from using soft skills’, she says, ‘so I can’t quote numbers to prove I was successful’.

				Rachel is ahead of the game realising that achievement stories are one of the things that make candidates stand out from the pack. My book Knockout CV surveyed what employers want to see when reading a CV, and discovered that four out of five employers find it useful to see a summary of career highlights and achievements on page 1.

				Well-pitched bullet points listing tangible achievements lift your CV well above the average. Employers like to know you have done things before, and have the right attitude to getting things done. Having good achievement stories at your fingertips can make the difference between ‘maybe’ and ‘yes’ in terms of a job offer.

				How do you communicate achievements? Start by listing as many as you can, taken from work, learning or hobbies. Go through old work logs or ask colleagues to remind you of times when you made a difference, added value, or introduced new thinking or methods. Look at your last Job Description. In what ways have you redefined the job or delivered more than was expected? Hunt for projects when you rescued a situation or initiated something. Think of times when you faced obstacles, setbacks and problems - perhaps a time when you helped retain a key customer, or averted a quality control disaster? Don’t hesitate to add achievements from your studies or life outside work.

				Catalogue all those occasions when you did something, even if you were a member of a team. What exactly did you do? What happened that wouldn’t have done if you’d stayed home that day? Even relatively junior roles give people plenty of chances to achieve beyond the ordinary.

				Step two is to provide measures wherever you can. Mention targets, sales figures, numbers of any kind that indicate the scale of your projects. Point to tangible cost savings. Use percentages to show growth or change.

				What about less tangible outcomes? Many candidates like Rachel find it hard to communicate what they have achieved using soft skills including negotiation, persuasion, and communication. Think harder. How did your contribution make a difference? You might talk about improving staff retention by helping others to grow and develop, or making teams work better, or persuading people to change. If you can’t quantify in numbers, tell the story of your results - e.g. ‘maintained team morale during a difficult takeover’ or ‘managed a number of difficult public meetings’ or ‘effectively protected my boss from internal pressures during a difficult press campaign’.

				Now pick the best 7-9 achievements to include in your CV, presenting each as a bullet point, beginning with action words (‘Initiated’, ‘Managed’, ‘Designed’...) and varying the length of your bullet points. Mentioning organisation names helps the reader relate these points to your work experience, and presenting your ‘Key Skills & Achievements’ directly after your CV profile transforms your CV from a dull documentary into a lively trailer for what you might say at interview.

				If you’re asked for evidence at interview, don’t just repeat the achievements documented in your CV. Go back to your original master list for back-up evidence. Learn how to tell achievement stories with the same brevity and impact that they appear in writing - rehearse a simple 3-part structure (situation, contribution, outcome) so that each story showcases your skills.

				Why do achievements matter? Because although we remember evidence, stories stick in the memory longer, particularly stories where the hero wins out and the challenge is completed. Finding fresh ways of describing what you do best will also shorten your job search time.





	OceanofPDF.com





Telling Stories


				The power of narrative to convince them you can do the job

				‘I’ve had some interview feedback’, says Jack. ‘People tell me that I get the facts across, but I need to learn to tell a good story’. Jack is fortunate to have constructive criticism in a market where post-interview feedback is largely random, but what kind of stories should he be telling?

				Not the kind of stories interviewers complain about when they meet candidates with over-complicated explanations for CV gaps and problems. Not pure fiction - telling lies on paper easily leads to early dismissal and a tarnished market reputation.

				We’re talking about story telling in its best sense - something which engages the listener and helps the candidate stay remembered. Good interviewees know how to pitch evidence of their skills in achievement story form. Strong candidates know how to tell the story convincingly.

				A good short story has an arresting opening. How often have you wrecked a good interview story by going on at length about how your role fitted into a matrix organisation? Get to the point quickly: How about if I give you an example. Last year I faced a big problem...

				Unless you are interesting, interviewers are easily distracted. You think you’re giving your best evidence, they are mentally planning a trip to Sainsbury’s or wondering who’ll win tonight’s match. They tune out when you over-deliver (but tune back in like a shark sensing blood in the water if you say something revealing a weakness).

				A good story has a memorable ending. Talk about outcomes - the things that happened because you turned up to work that day. Include facts and figures briefly if they help. If outcomes were ‘soft’ (hearts and minds stuff rather than projects managed or deals done), learn to talk about those successes too.

				I’m grateful to career coach Kate Howlett for her contribution to my book The Interview Expert: ‘dwell on the important details, build the tension, describe how you came up trumps. How did your story end? What were the long-term effects of your actions in the organisations you worked in?’

				If you did something difficult, sell the idea. If you faced a challenge, show how big it was. Barriers? Obstacles? Make the task sound big enough to be interesting.

				Plan ahead using the employer’s wish list as your guide. Drill down until you are sure of the weightiest 5 or 6 items in the job description, and prepare at least two 3-minute tales to match each point. The structure is as old as the world’s oldest stories - set the scene quickly, describe the problem, say what you did, and describe the outcome. Then close down quickly. Leave your interviewer wanting more. A request for more information is a great buying signal.

				Don’t generalise interview answers, plan the words - not a vague idea of what you will talk about, but the exact words you will use to begin and end each piece of evidence. Practise mini-narratives by rehearsing them out loud, not just in your head. By the time you’ve spoken something three times you’ll know how it will fly, and you’ll have a wide range of stories at your fingertips.

				Skilled storytellers know how long they can hold an audience’s attention. Make the most of your material by turning dull facts into convincing stories that are remembered long after you have left the room.





	OceanofPDF.com





Turning Job Content into a Movie Trailer


				Smarter interview evidence

				Steve isn’t getting anywhere in his job search. ‘Even I find my past jobs boring’, he says. ‘When I talk about them I can see the interviewer’s eyes glazing over...’

				How much does your CV rely on past job descriptions? When you answer the question ‘tell me about your past job’, is your answer like a dull HR manual?

				Steve’s last job was customer sales advisor. His CV states ‘key activities included dealing with customer enquiries by telephone, email and letter, dealing with product queries and processing requests for catalogues.’ Accurate, yes. But also boringly predictable. All too often CVs simply repackage predictable information. Worse, your CV may suggest that all you did was passively carry out tasks given to you with little creativity or initiative.

				You get 5 lines in a CV and 5 minutes in an interview to talk about a past job, even if you were in that job for many years. 5 minutes is not much longer than the average movie trailer, which is very careful not to rehash the whole plot of a film but aims to give you a flavour of what it will feel like to experience the complete film.

				So start with what the job felt like to you. Steve tells me ‘I enjoyed helping customers solve their problems efficiently, making them feel their calls were important.’ He talks about how he made that happen by showing real interest in what would make customers feel their call had been worthwhile. Soon his CV fills up with examples of where he added to the job. In fact Steve is great at telling people about new products and special promotions, but for him the experience felt like a simple process of getting to know people and spending time with them.

				Suddenly we’ve moved on from the language of job content to stories which show that Steve is a person who can establish relationships quickly, get people talking about the problems they’d like to solve; he wins people over by showing them he’s interested in their experience.

				In addition, he reveals the time he spent learning enough about the product range to sound knowledgeable, and the fact that he can manage customer conversations under time pressure.

				If you want to add to your evidence, ask yourself what you learned during the job - what you could do differently when you left it? Seek evidence of where you invented new processes, and where you expanded the original job description. What obstacles did you overcome? How did you get the best out of other people? What planning and improvisation did you need? How did you surprise yourself or others?

				To help you drill down into how the job felt, think about your best day in the role. What were you doing? If someone had shadowed you with a video camera that day, think about what movement and activity it would show, and what reactions would be recorded on the faces of customers and colleagues.

				Your stories don’t need to display completely original thinking - just enough to show that you don’t sit on your hands in a job. Whatever you did, rather than a chopped-down job description, present a movie trailer: set the scene quickly, avoid long sequences, show action sequences, and keep you, the star, in shot.





	OceanofPDF.com





Interview Defence Strategies


				Preparing for probing questions

				Jim hits the same brick wall in every interview. ‘They always ask me why I lost my last job,’ he says ‘and also what I’ve been doing for the last 9 months. That’s when things go wrong.’

				Interview candidates play a game called ‘duck the obvious’, pretending that interview questions are far too random to plan for. In reality, four in five interview questions can be predicted accurately, starting with the employer’s shopping list and then switching to the main worries an interviewer has about your evidence.

				In a tight market employers only call in people they are confident can do the job, so an interview means you’re pretty close to an offer - if you can avoid talking yourself out of the job. Prepare yourself for questions dealing with any lingering doubts in the recruiter’s mind - especially if these topics usually derail your performance. What are these questions? The ones you hope will never be asked.

				Yes, there are predictable questions about skills, strengths, weaknesses, past experiences and personal motivation, but you’re probably far less worried about these than those questions which probe gaps and problems. Perhaps you dropped out of a course of study, changed jobs rather too frequently, or spent a long time temping. Perhaps your last job has little obvious connection to the roles you’re currently chasing. You might be explaining a gap year (see my earlier piece on talking about career breaks). Or maybe you don’t want to be pushed and probed on that big issue ‘why are you on the market at the moment?’.

				Nearly every candidate I work with shows discomfort when asked to talk about redundancy or being unemployed. The interesting thing is that in the past employers used to worry about candidates who had been ‘let go’ by other organisations, or people who had been out of the market for months rather than weeks. Today both are regular occurrences.

				As with any CV dilemma, the problem becomes bigger as soon as you react badly to an enquiry. That’s why you need short, uncomplicated rescue statements - pre-prepared answers which ensure you move forward, rather than dig holes.

				Tricky topics need two lines of defence. If you are asked about why you were made redundant, don’t be defensive or cast your employer in a bad light - this introduces the suggestion that you might have been a problem employee. Far better to nail the problem very quickly: ‘the organisation restructured and several posts were made redundant, which prompted me to think about the kind of work I’d really like to do. This role...’

				The same kind of single-breath summary can usually get you out of the minefield and into safer territory. So, if you dropped out of your degree course or changed jobs more than the norm, offer a short, uncomplicated, positive reason - perhaps something like ‘I decided to get some real world experience’.

				Most of the time a short rescue statement allows the interviewer to tick a box and move on, but have a second line of defence for the seasoned interviewer who wants to know more - ‘Talk me through that decision’, perhaps, or ‘Why did you wait for your employer to make you redundant if the job was so unfulfilling?’

				Secondary defences will still be brief, but will do one thing very clearly. They will show that you make decisions about your own career, that you actively seek out interesting work and learning experiences, and seek out new challenges.

				Lines of defence keep your chances alive longer and boost your confidence. Don’t get caught in the crossfire without a two-plan strategy.

				Here’s a great idea from my colleague Kate Howlett. Remember the ‘warmer’ and ‘colder’ game children play, giving clues about how close you are to hidden objects? Give short answers to questions on negative topics, and longer answers to positive enquiries. Take the interview to a ‘hot’ place every time you can.





	OceanofPDF.com





Team Talk


				Discussing team results in an interview

				When was the last time you worked in a team? How will you talk about it in a job interview and still reveal your personal strengths?

				I’m grateful to Stuart Lindenfield, Head of Transitions Practice at Reed Consulting, for reminding me how difficult interview answers can be when you have worked extensively in teams. Stuart writes: ‘Sales people find it easy to talk about what they have achieved, but those who work in tightly knit customer service teams find it a challenge to identify their individual contributions. They often say things like ‘it’s all about collaboration, one for all and all for one’.

				Too many candidates hide behind the six foot fence presented by the word ‘we’ - giving the impression that they won’t be able to deliver without the support of the people left behind.

				The ability to work collaboratively in successful teams is valued. However, many claim this ability without real evidence. Talk about what you have achieved, particularly where there was a major challenge or obstacle - which could include friction between team members or unclear goals.

				Stronger candidates know that a ‘team player’ does different things in different contexts. Look at your experience - what role do you naturally adopt in a team? Do you lead from the front or organise the back room stuff? Do you progress chase, cajole, persuade, encourage? Do you generate new ideas or build on other people’s thinking? Do you get the job done on time? Are you the one who communicates with the team, making sure that people get on with each other as well as with the task?

				You may never have been given much feedback about what you do well in teams, but think of times when you’ve worked in teams that didn’t find it easy to co-operate, or a team that was failing to achieve goals, and you will then see what behaviours helped to improve outcomes. Remember that the work done to hold teams together is often about soft skills - open communication, collaborative working, sharing glory and blame alike.

				Team contributions often make a big difference, so don’t throw away strong evidence by under-selling your individual contribution. Talk about team outcomes, but talk about the things that happened because of what you added; new ideas, new ways of working, perhaps something you did to motivate other team members or keep things on target?

				Talking about your individual contribution doesn’t need to sound egotistical or neglectful of other team members. Good team members know which roles they occupy comfortably, but also how to switch hats when things are going wrong.

				Stuart Lindenfield meets many candidates who find it hard to talk about what they brought to the party. He writes: ‘Think about a 4-person relay race team. If the team wins, each individual gets their own medal. And each individual will have contributed in a different way...’ The point here of course is that your team isn’t going to be coming with you, so always saying ‘what we did’ keeps you locked into a past that can’t be repeated. Better to talk about your operating modes in a wide range of teams, and be clear about your individual input.





	OceanofPDF.com





Am I Over-Qualified?


				Ali has been given feedback that she is over-qualified. ‘I can’t hide my qualifications,’ she says, ‘so how do I play this?’

				Good qualifications studied for the right reasons can open doors and can show a useful ability to think, organise and plan. Your studies can also help communicate a range of personal qualities around influencing and co-operating with others. You may also have communicated to groups, undertaken detailed research, collated materials or used analytical thinking. Extra-curricular activity may have given you important skills in organisation or fund raising.

				So it’s understandable that many candidates leaving full time education, whatever their age, place a very big focus on academic awards and the names of courses or institutions, trusting that this information alone will impress and open doors.

				It’s a paradox that, even in a recession, many employers complain they can’t find skilled candidates. However the same organisations are often uncertain about how an education in general, or specific qualifications, will actually make a difference. Some jobs are of course pitched too high - dropping the word ‘graduate’ into job requirements will rule out less qualified people who can do the job well, but others still take the old-fashioned view that even a good education is a poor preparation for the realities of the workplace.

				This kind of thinking is often applied fairly unimaginatively to those with postgraduate qualifications. However at any level there will always be candidates considered too qualified for the job. Whether this is based on hunch or reality, it helps to understand the way an employer interprets academic achievement in a CV.

				When candidates are in over-supply, employers just don’t need things to worry about. Think carefully about any CV message that does not evidence your ability to do the job. A CV that is really saying ‘look at my qualifications’ may also broadcast ‘I have great potential, but little experience’. When employers believe they can get any skill set they require, you may be talking your way out of an interview.

				If your qualifications or experience seem above-par for a role, you may get the knee-jerk reaction that you’ll rapidly become bored or under-stimulated. You may also encounter the old-fashioned view that highly qualified people will challenge and question authority, or a hirer may also assume that you will want to be promoted quickly - an idea which might be a deal-breaker in a flat organisation.

				The good news is that it’s relatively straightforward to dispel these ideas. Try a sentence which begins ‘I expect you’re wondering about...’. Talk about your reason for studying, what you got out of it, but make it clear that you do not have unrealistic expectations about the workplace and you’re happy to fit in.

				Unless you’re chasing a technical job which depends on a single qualification, an employer is heavily influenced by experience, attitude and useful skills - but in fact you can draw many of these out of your learning history. However it’s always safest to highlight evidence of working activity (including volunteering or holiday jobs).

				Consider under-playing qualifications if they get in the way of your CV. Otherwise, put yourself ahead of the pack by telling an employer about the things that will matter most in your new job - not what you studied last year, but what you will deliver next week.





	OceanofPDF.com





Presenting Like a Pro


				When the interview begins with a presentation...

				‘I’m really nervous about next week’s interview’, Jakob says, ‘they want me to give an 8 minute presentation, and I know it will go wrong.’ Jakob is not alone. Facing an interview can be tough enough, but having to give a presentation before you begin can terrify even robust candidates.

				First of all, let’s be clear why employers do this. With a good supply of candidates employers want to get more out of the hiring process, but the reason they ask for a presentation is to get a real sense of whether you can communicate and influence.

				Learn from the classic mistakes people make in presentations. Too many candidates misunderstand (and over-complicate) the task. They try to cram 50 ideas or 15 slides into 5 minutes, hoping that something will stick. If you have so much material you over-run and have to be stopped that is guaranteed to derail the opening of the interview.

				Far too many presentations have a stilted, under-rehearsed opening and fail to establish eye contact because the speaker is looking down at printed notes. Weaker candidates overstuff PowerPoint slides with long sentences - and then read them all out. Limit yourself to four punchy bullet points per slide, and state your best lines out loud rather than on screen.

				The biggest mistake people make is to believe that content matters. In reality, interviewers pay far more attention to your personal impact. A presentation is an audition, not a lecture or a business address - what kind of quality content can you really deliver in 5-7 minutes, knowing little about the organisation? It’s an important chance to perform in front of a live audience asking themselves one question: ‘how would this person look and sound in front of the workforce/ the board/ the public?’

				Look at any movie and watch the first 30 seconds the main actor is on screen. As the character is established quickly, you decide if it’s going to be a good film. Presentations have the same power to intensify first impressions, so give attention not just to your script but the way you stand up, move and speak. A defining judgement about you is made within the opening seconds of your presentation, so rehearse them with great care.

				The beginning and the end of your presentation will be remembered most, so that’s where you plan hardest. Learn the first and last two sentences by heart - so you know exactly how you will begin and end. Your opening should be a crisp sound bite: ‘I’m here to talk about...’, rather than ‘I wonder if this laptop is working...’. A well-crafted ending to your presentation, perhaps a strong statement or a good open question, allows the interview itself to start on a high note.

				Average candidates have a vague game plan based around topics. Plan and rehearse the actual words, then cut out about 25% of your material to make things flow easily rather than sounding rushed. Reading aloud from a script means you lose connection with your audience - try using symbols or cartoons to help you remember your key points.

				Remember, whatever the topic, a presentation is really about what you will deliver. Focus on three critical themes: (1) Analysis - your understanding of the organisation’s issues. (2) Connections - linking what the organisation needs to your experience, and (3) Suggested actions - clear recommendations (small, quick wins are easier to sell than huge changes because you would of course need to know a lot more before implementation).

				Nerves getting in the way? The good news is that performance anxiety lessens the more you do something. Your brain starts to recognise contexts and starts to say ‘this feels OK, I have been here before’. This seems to work just as well with visualised scenarios as actual performances, so spend some time imagining yourself doing well in a presentation and thinking through the positive language you will use.





	OceanofPDF.com





Teeth and Smiles


				Getting your personality across at interview

				Graham has received interview feedback. ‘They said my personality wouldn’t suit the team’, he says, ‘so what can I do about that?’

				Interviewers like to believe they work objectively, matching candidates against carefully measured job components. In reality interview decisions are often gut reactions highly influenced by personality, with even skilled interviewers unconsciously favouring people who make them feel comfortable.

				Just be yourself is the advice often give to candidates, but this rarely helps. You take several versions of ‘yourself’ to work, and choose to present different characteristics under different circumstances. You adopt different behaviours and create a different image talking to the boss compared to work colleagues. You’ll act very differently in a formal presentation than you will at lunchtime, and you will certainly be quite a different person in a job interview.

				Better advice - be the best version of yourself you can bring out under pressure. You on a good day, perhaps slightly more upbeat, slightly more enthusiastic and energised than normal. Interviewers observe the personality aspects you choose to make visible.

				Anticipate opportunities to demonstrate personality strengths in interviews. Think of good work-related examples - strong mini-narratives that convey useful all-round strengths like coping with pressure, working with difficult people, overcoming problems, or getting things done with thin resources.

				Examine job documents in detail and highlight any personality attributes you can identify. Then think about how far your personality might match. So, for example, if the job seeks someone who is ‘innovative’, think of good examples. Visualise the work context so you can get a feel for what the post holder will actually need to do, and then think about what personality characteristics would be most useful.

				In a job interview work hard on the impact you make in the first 60 seconds. An interviewer makes an instinctive prediction from how personable you are - will you be easy to talk to, pleasant to work alongside, good at establishing relationships quickly? Secondly, a decision is made about how open you appear. Do you readily respond to questions and volunteer information? Do you help the interview flow? Finally an interviewer makes a snap judgement about your walk-in appearance - do you look like you will fit in?

				If you’re in a job and hoping for promotion, be aware of your observable behaviours. Be particularly aware of the impact you make when contributing to a meeting, making a presentation, or communicating with senior staff.

				Focus carefully on the immediate impression you make every time you arrive at a meeting or stand up in front of even the smallest audience. Prepare not just what you say, but how you say it. Think about what you’re really communicating every time you speak when key people are in the room - do you sound like someone ready for promotion? Looking the part also matters - dress like someone two rungs up the ladder and this is more likely to happen.

				You might think that chemistry between you and others is entirely instinctive and outside your control. That’s a great way of keeping your head in the sand. Small adjustments to the way you come across make a huge difference. Practise the way you manage relationships in their opening moments, and you’ll be surprised how often ‘maybe’ turns to ‘yes’ in a wide range of work conversations.





	OceanofPDF.com





Faking It


				How far should you pretend if you don’t match the job description?

				Ellie starts a new job on Monday. ‘Last time I spent too long learning the job while other people pushed themselves forward’, she says. ‘This time I’m going to fake it until I make it’.

				TV programmes often show people doing totally unfamiliar jobs which push them completely out of their depth, and then trying to convince colleagues or customers they are the genuine article. In the real world of work, many people suffer from imposter syndrome - feeling they’re a fake, and worrying this will be discovered.

				The workplace needs more fakes like a hole in the head. Even in a downturn people get promoted beyond their competence. Other fake behaviours abound - insincere flattery, sniping at colleagues behind their backs, and colleagues who do very little but ride the wave on the actions of others. The chemistry of office politics often leads to false offers of support and friendship.

				However, sheer fakery is a dangerous game. Claiming qualifications or successes which don’t exist can ensure a swift and ugly exit. Selling a false picture of your competences may just show you don’t understand the job, and empty claims come apart in the face of competency-based questions.

				However there can be times when talking the talk opens doors. People often win new projects and opportunities to stretch themselves by claiming abilities that are not fully tested. Anyone setting out as a newly self-employed contractor begins with a clean sheet; some of the things you’ll be asked to do will be familiar, others will be outside your comfort zone but will provide learning vital to the expansion of your services.

				In any new job some tasks will allow you to bring prior knowledge to bear quickly, but often you’ll need to learn fast. Today’s economy favours people who can pick up expertise quickly and adapt their experience to unpredicted problems.

				Job interviews, performance reviews and meetings where you pitch for work as a contractor have something in common: someone is balancing your past against the organisation’s future. Demonstrate initiative, trouble-shooting and a track record of completing projects on time by talking about past roles on your CV as distinct, separate tasks - with a big focus on how things began and ended.

				To be honest, sometimes confidence has to carry you through. Many people setting out in a self-employed capacity find themselves saying ‘what I usually do is...’ when asked to scope out entirely new assignments. This isn’t fiction, but re-packaging - revealing a tested ability to apply skills, know-how and common sense into a new context.

				Act as if you fit the part, even if this involves a little pretence. Looking enthusiastic, informed, even just interested, can influence your future. Walking into a room as if you know what you’re doing will often push your performance to new levels.

				Work, like everyday living, distorts reality just a little, from ‘you really need to buy one of these’ through to ‘I really argued the case but I couldn’t get you a pay rise’. In an interview, is your claim to be able to do 100% of the job entirely honest?

				Don’t fake your abilities, but don’t hide your talents or fail to see how they can solve new problems. Sometimes you fly at your best when it’s by the seat of your pants.





	OceanofPDF.com





Advice for Frustrated Actors and Wallflowers


				People who under and over-perform at interview

				Jackie grabs any opportunity to be in the limelight - making presentations, giving talks, she even turns instructions for using the photocopier into an entertainment. Problems arise when people don’t know her well: ‘After interviews I get feedback that I’m larger than life’, she says. ‘I’m starting to think I’m a bit too ‘up front’ for most employers.’

				There are frustrated actors everywhere - usually the first to grab the flipchart pen, ready to upstage colleagues in group presentations. Very direct, performance-based behaviour can communicate energy and enthusiasm. However it can also sometimes suggest that you’re permanently set to broadcast mode, particularly if you naturally speak at high volume.

				At interview over-performers tend unconsciously to dominate, turning a conversation into a monologue. This is counter-productive, as it often means the interviewer can’t get through all the selection questions, and can also create the idea that you’re speaking without listening. An interviewer, particularly in a panel situation, is always keen to assess your impact on others, which begins with reading your audience and judging a communication style which matches. Good communicators see themselves as others see them, and know when to pause, when to tread lightly, and when to shut up.

				In a new job, speaking louder and more frequently than established team members can easily irritate, unless you’ve been specifically hired to make a big impact on an under-performing team and impose rather than test new ideas. In front of the wrong audience it can be a career limiting action.

				Of course, many people have the opposite problem. They hate anything that looks or feels showy, whether it’s describing themselves at interview or speaking in public. It’s interesting to see how their behaviours can change with just a small amount of encouragement and practice. For example, at interview it can help to speak as if you’re describing somebody else. In a presentation, memorising and rehearsing the first and last 30 seconds of any presentation transforms it into a competent delivery very quickly.

				In a workplace situation the people who hate to be on show often sit deep in the shadows. The problem is that your competencies only have currency when they are observed.

				Always being the last to speak in a discussion can signal lack of interest as well as shyness, and can flag up a lack of leadership ability. Avoiding speaking in public is a great way of not being noticed by the managers in your organisation who make decisions about people development.

				If you shun the limelight, you give everyone permission to ignore your contribution. Learn through small steps how to describe what you do best - it’s often easier but effective to do this by passing on tips to others about strategies that have worked well. Others will steal your glory sometimes, but you’ll still be noticed. Learn how to describe your achievements as simple facts, rather than constantly apologising or saying ‘all I did was...’. Don’t fudge or downplay what you have done - tell it how it is.

				If you are a natural communicator and you’re good at winning over listeners and creating a positive atmosphere, play to those strengths. It may also pay to take feedback on how many toes you crush in the process. Making a visible difference without over-playing the part is what moves your career into a new gear.





	OceanofPDF.com





Wacky Questions


				While many interview questions can be predicted, some come at you completely out of the blue: ‘Is a Jaffa cake a cake or a biscuit?’ ‘How far is the sun from the earth?’ ‘Name five uses for a stapler, without the staples’.

				Interviewers ask wildcard questions for a range of reasons. Sometimes a bored interviewer throws one in just to spice things up. Some genuinely believe that the question reveals your ‘true’ personality or tests how you respond under pressure. Interview questions should be designed to find out if you can do the job, but off-the-wall questions feel very unpredictable and can easily wrong-foot you.

				We’re not talking about questions like ‘what are your strengths and weaknesses?’. Questions like that are difficult, not unexpected, and you should prepare strong answers. Equally, if the job requires quick mental arithmetic, watch out for questions like ‘how many light bulbs are in this building?’ or ‘how many litres of milk would you need to fill this room?’. Remember, if you’re asked to make calculations under pressure it’s the thought process that counts, and an intelligent approximation rather than an exact figure is often acceptable.

				Many interviewees report completely wacky questions apparently aimed at pushing their buttons: ‘if you were a song, what song would you be?’ or ‘what’s on your mantelpiece at home?’. These questions often seem unrelated to the real world of work, but sometimes they test lateral thinking - e.g. ‘what three things would you take on a trip to Mars?’

				Respond with good humour. Don’t get offended or flustered, or freeze like a rabbit in the headlights. These questions have the same role as playful final questions coming at the end of Question Time on TV, and can bring out personality aspects more than serious topics. So don’t get too wrapped up in the complications of the question - a relaxed response works best, showing you find the question entertaining. Play for time: ‘Wow - great question. While I’m digging around for a good answer, tell me - how do people usually answer that?’

				You may be asked ‘What If?’ questions which are entirely work-related. If you were up for a hotel receptionist job, you might have to say how you would handle an angry customer who refuses to pay his bill. One candidate for a technical job was asked ‘if I put you in a sealed room with a phone that had no dial tone, how would you fix it?’.

				Some wildcard questions probe matching skills, for example, ‘sell me this pencil!’ might be relevant to a sales job, particularly if it involves thinking on your feet. Plan ahead by imagining the items that are likely to be within the interviewer’s grasp (pencil, paper clip, stapler, coaster...). Be prepared at the drop of a hat to explain features and benefits of these objects. People buy from people - ideally from people they like, so work just as hard at getting a smile as winning the sale. One sales technique is to quickly get the interviewer to say ‘yes’ as many times as possible - ‘yes’ to the need for a pencil, ‘yes’ to the fact that this pencil is both useful and attractive and ‘yes’ to your proposition that it’s excellent value for money. Play it tongue in cheek, but play to win.





	OceanofPDF.com





Do You Have Any Questions for Us?


				Rajesh is a great interview candidate but can’t get out of the room quickly enough. ‘They ask me if I have any questions’, he says, ‘but I always say everything has been covered nicely. When I try questions they usually fall flat, particularly when I ask about salary and promotion prospects’.

				You may have heard the idea that an interview is a two-way conversation - the interviewer decides if you fit the role, and you decide if the organisation is right for you. However the people interviewing you may not be people you will actually work with, and may present an incomplete picture of the organisation. Secondly, you waste interview time asking questions which help you decide whether you want the job - do that thinking later in the process.

				When an interviewer gives you space at the end of the interview to ask your own questions, this isn’t out of politeness. It’s to find out how much you have thought about the role, and whether you have a good reason to want it.

				Your purpose in asking questions at the end is simple - to be remembered. Interviewers pay careful attention to your final questions because they’re difficult to predict. These questions are the last event of the interview - so they stick in an interviewer’s memory more efficiently than things you said earlier.

				Prepare 3-4 great questions which are short and simple - a long and complicated question stalls the conversation. Pitch questions which show you really understand the job and the organisation. Don’t read questions out from notes - this sounds stilted and gives the impression that you haven’t picked up on anything said during the interview.

				If you feel that the job is almost a perfect fit but needs a little tailoring, you may get a chance to raise one question about job content during the interview, particularly if it is a second interview and you feel you are a strong candidate.

				Don’t be tempted to use this final opportunity to turn the tables on the interviewer to even the score by asking difficult questions. Don’t waste everyone’s time by asking questions that could have been answered by 10 minutes research on the Internet - ‘what exactly do you do here?’ rarely impresses. Equally, don’t waste this opportunity by asking questions about pay, benefits or promotion prospects - you can double check and then negotiate all these once you have a job offer in your hand.

				The purpose of this moment should be influence your planning. Whatever you say now is going to be remembered and may make the difference between ‘maybe’ and ‘yes’, so ask a question about the future of the job. Before you ask any questions, say something positive about the role to show that you are clear you want the role. Ask how the job will change, what development or training opportunities will come along. Ask what kinds of results the employer is looking for in the first 3-6 months. Throw in some ideas for results you might achieve quickly.

				Your task here is simple, and the purpose of your questions is message reinforcement not information gathering. Create a picture in the interviewer’s mind of you in the post, doing well. Once someone has a strong mental image of you holding down the role, it’s difficult to shake it off.





	OceanofPDF.com





Quick Thinking When a Job Offer Comes Along


				Dominic is beaming. He’s got a job offer. ‘They mentioned a salary and some other terms’, he says, ‘but I just said yes to everything as I wasn’t really listening.’

				Even when job offers are rare it pays to have a planned response strategy. A firm offer means that an employer is committed to you, so now’s a good time to negotiate key details.

				You may be able to pitch for a slightly higher salary. Ideally you will have a sense of the pay range available. Without sounding disappointed, try asking if the salary offer can be improved.

				Don’t say ‘yes’ to anything if you’re offered the job on the phone, but don’t sound cagey either. At this moment the employer wants to hear enthusiasm and commitment, so frame everything you say in positive terms - talk about how you enjoyed the interview and you’re delighted to be offered the job, and then simply say that you look forward to reviewing emailed details.

				The tone of how you handle this really matters. The last thing you should do is to sound suspicious or under-committed, but you want to buy some time to think carefully about the offer and decide on a negotiation strategy. Top and tail your comments with warm, positive remarks. Making sure your reaction sounds entirely committed will dispel any worry that your original application was half-hearted, or you might be about to turn the job down.

				Then take two important steps. The first is to decide what elements in your wish list you want to negotiate. If you ask for too much to be adjusted you sound picky, but if you accept the job exactly as it’s offered you may convey desperation or look like a pushover. Apart from an improved pay deal you might also be looking for an adjusted start date, agreement regarding pre-booked holidays, or perhaps some extension to your terms and conditions. You can certainly use this moment to seek clarification about role content - being sure right now what the job is about will often help you avoid a poor early job review. This is also the time to firm up any employer offer on relocation expenses, future training, travel expenses and other details - but decide on a short list of the things you want adjusting.

				Secondly, while these and other details are being confirmed, take an opportunity to visit the workplace. So far you’ve probably spent no longer than an hour or two with organisational representative, and most won’t be working alongside you. Ask - as if it was entirely routine - for the opportunity to spend some time with the team you’ll be working with. A short visit will give you a real inside picture of the organisation and give you a strong feel for whether the job is a good fit. Cross-reference your instincts against the views of others who know the organisation well. You may feel it’s the only job on offer, but any permanent role is going to have a big impact on your future CV.

				So, negotiate something, even if it’s nothing to do with money, because it sends out much stronger buying signals. However once you’ve agreed something, don’t put it back on the table later - that simply marks you out as an unreliable game player.





	OceanofPDF.com





Getting Back in the Game After Hearing NO


				Preparing for the impact of rejection

				Last week Anna had an interview for a job she was excited about - a role that matched her skills in an organisation that would enhance her CV. She anticipated questions and pitched against everything in the job description in a convincing interview performance. Yet this Monday she received exactly the same rejection letter as candidates who did no homework and did all the wrong things at interview: Thank you so much for your application. Unfortunately...

				Today Anna no longer believes in the achievements she claims in her CV. She’s decided she’s obviously doing the wrong things at interview. Anna’s applying for a job below her skill level in a part of the country where she doesn’t want to work. Whether she gets an interview or not, she’s setting herself up to hear another ‘no’.

				Just as frustrated authors collect publisher’s rejection slips, some candidates count ‘no’ letters with a kind of distorted pride. Thinking about the way you handle rejection is as vital a part of your career toolkit as a strong CV. You’ve put yourself on the line at interview, talked about who you are and what you do well, and you’ve been turned down - so there’s no use pretending that it’s not personal. If you’re selling a product or service and hear ‘no, most people can keep trying, but a ‘no’ which is about you can knock you sideways.

				When an employer is sifting paper applications, the chances of getting short listed are always pretty small if the field of applicants is large. If there are 500-plus people chasing a job the odds are against getting an interview, no matter how brilliant your application.

				After a ‘no’ letter it’s very tempting to try to join the dots and guess why you didn’t get an offer. You might blame the interviewer, the process, your CV, but most probably you’ll blame yourself. Sometimes it helps to remember that even top sales people usually need to hear ‘no’ three times before they get a ‘yes’. For most job searchers hearing ‘no’ most of the time is a statistical reality. What can you do about it?

				Don’t read more into the interview result than you actually see. Firstly, there’s a big difference between an interview that rules you out, and one that very nearly rules you in. You may lack sector experience, or there may have been a strong internal candidate. Before you trash your own efforts remember that the way hiring decisions are made is never completely transparent. Also, most reasons for rejection are not about you.

				Rejection is not feedback. In fact, most post-interview feedback is either bland or misleading. You probably have very little hard evidence to reshape your strategy, but your confidence will almost certainly have been affected. After a ‘no’ many candidates make random adjustments to their CV or say they’re ‘lowering their sights’ in terms of pay or location. It’s worth repeating: rejection is not feedback.

				Seek genuine, helpful feedback somewhere well away from job applications. Practice in front of someone with interviewing experience (but be aware that many general managers overrate their interviewing skills - try to find someone with an HR or recruitment background who can run you through a structured interview, probing your answers). Don’t ask someone who last interviewed in 1985, or someone who tells you you’re wonderful and shouldn’t change a thing.

				Random applications for jobs you care little about give you arbitrary results. Thinking of ‘testing the water’, applying for jobs you don’t really want - just for interview practice? You could do the job in your sleep, so you hope to get a job offer you can turn down. Don’t do it. Your lack of real enthusiasm or will probably lead to a rejection, and any ‘no’ has an effect. Take care of your confidence; guard it, build it up. You’ll need every ounce of it in today’s market.





	OceanofPDF.com





Getting the Best Out of Recruitment Agencies


				‘I’ve been to a couple of agencies but they don’t get me at all’, Jodi tells me. ‘Each one told me to write my CV differently. But I have registered, so I’ve done my bit...’

				Jodi is learning fast about what agencies do. They are not coaches or a free advisory service. Recruitment consultants are professional selectors who make a living finding workers to fill vacancies for client employers. A recruitment consultant will not make the final selection decision, but is a gatekeeper between you and the decision-maker. Poor agencies simply distribute unsolicited CVs, overpromise and under-deliver. Many others have an extremely good feel for the market, and where they deal with specialist sectors, can provide priceless information.

				You are dealing with an intermediary, someone who is both a broker and barrier. If a recruitment consultant is talking to you, it is because they believe you are a pretty exact fit for a role they hope to fill. Their primary strength is their ability to open doors by persuading employers to commit to interview dates and then to issue job offers.

				Agencies filter candidates based initially on your CV, so make your transferable skills and breadth of experience as clear as you can. Once they see you they are usually highly tuned to the first impression you create and your interview behaviours. More than ever, they want to put forward a safe bet. Today’s market allows external recruiters to believe they can find someone whose experience is an exact match to the job, which makes things harder for those who want to change sectors.

				Some agencies will offer to ‘market’ you, others will say you are securely ‘on the register’. This will often mean very little - it’s the relationship that counts. Recruiters are sales-oriented people specialists at heart, so do everything you can to build strong relationships and convince them of your strong sense of direction and the fact that you will be an enthusiastic candidate. Ask for advice on interview technique, what to wear, interview questions to prepare for, and listen carefully to the way a consultant describes what an employer is seeking.

				You will hear conflicting agency advice about CV formats (some insist on 2 pages maximum, and many don’t like an opening profile, wanting just the bare job history so they can sell you to an employer. Don’t ask for an opinion on your CV, ask for a summary - ask the question ‘what does my CV say to you?’. If you hear a clear, recognisable story coming back, your CV works.

				Help your consultant to help you. If you don’t want a job like the one you just left, give a short explanation of what you are looking for, and why. Be focused on what kind of work you want and the skills you have to offer. Treat each agency interview as a genuine selection experience. Be flexible in terms of availability, and open to suggestions, but if the agency offers you something unsuitable explain again what’s in your sights.

				Don’t let your doubts about recruitment consultancies or agencies influence your decision to work with them. Agencies need a flow of enthusiastic, committed candidates. Just as you will show an employer how your presence in the workplace will solve problems, be a problem solver to any intermediaries.





	OceanofPDF.com





Avoiding the Same Old, Same Old


				When the market offers you the job you want to escape from...

				José has come back to me after a frustrating week. ‘Everyone I talk to assumes that I want the same kind of job I left two months ago. Agencies keep offering me the kind of job I’ve just escaped from!’

				Agencies are relatively conservative. When filling an employer brief, their credibility rests on putting forward candidates with highly relevant experience. In a tough market they often put forward ‘identikit’ candidates who have done the same job recently. This safety-first behaviour can be frustrating for candidates, who complain they are offered jobs they could do in their sleep.

				Why does this happen? The answer is in your CV. Whatever you emphasise in the early part of your CV is the way you will be pigeon-holed. So if you start your CV ‘qualified book-keeper’ or ‘change manager’ those are the roles you’ll be offered. Similarly, if like most CVs your paperwork emphasises your current or last role, that’s what you’ll see coming back at you. Agency default mode is that you’re offering skills that will fit you into a role broadly similar to something already in your CV.

				Too many people write CVs that only really work if you’re in the room providing a kind of voice-over - ‘before you read my CV, let me tell you...’ You won’t be in the room when your CV is read, so it has to do the work on its own.

				The average CV sends out all the wrong signals about career intentions. If you don’t tell them otherwise, employers will assume that you want to do similar work at a higher status or pay grade. Without explanation, every CV says next rung up the ladder please, which is why so many candidates say ‘agencies keep offering me jobs that would bore me stupid’ and ‘employers don’t seem to understand what I’m looking for’.

				One person is responsible for making a clear statement about the work you want to do next. You. So your CV has to have a secure handover message. Look at the first two sentences. If someone reads no further, what jobs might come your way? Review the first page as a whole. Bearing in mind that a decision maker will start pigeon-holing you early on page 1, what thought processes are you trying to trigger?

				A good opening CV profile can often steer readers away from wrong assumptions and lead them towards the evidence you want to highlight: experience of different roles, sectors and working environments, for example. Emphasise transferable skills by describing them in the kind of terms that an employer not only recognises but welcomes. Avoid using limiting job titles too early on - write about what you did, not what you were called. Move quickly to evidence which strongly matches the employers’ wish list, without locking you into roles that don’t suit you.

				Agencies can help you move on into a very different role, but only if you explain carefully (often more than once), and only if you provide answers not puzzles. Don’t say ‘I can do anything’ or ‘I’m flexible’, talk about the mix of skills you would like to use in a role, the organisations you’re excited about, and provide concrete examples of roles that would be exciting next stages of the journey.





	OceanofPDF.com





Will I Fit In?


				Quality research before you switch jobs

				Ever had that sense that your face just doesn’t fit?

				Tess is explaining to me why things aren’t going well at work. She works in an office where she always feels like an outsider. She performs well, gets good appraisals, but increasingly feels like an outsider. Knowing looks are exchanged around her, and she gets left out of the loop on important communication.

				Her colleagues are brash and loud, and she isn’t. ‘It’s getting worse’, she says. ‘They talk in a kind of code with lots of in-jokes. The banter started as sexist and now it’s on the edge of offensive, but everyone tells me I’ve lost my sense of humour. The biggest impact is on my confidence - I don’t know whether I should complain, keep my head down, or look for a new job’.

				At first new staff are treated like curious strangers, and then the dominant culture starts to re-assert itself - personal comments, derogatory remarks when someone has just left the room, or jokes that seem to test which way you’ll jump. It becomes clear that there is an unstated job description - to be successful you have to fit in, bite your lip, and play with the big boys. You feel like a round peg pushed so hard into a square hole you don’t recognise yourself in the mirror.

				The hidden cultures of the workplace have a powerful effect on job success. Your ability to ‘read’ the office culture can make the difference between walking tall and constantly looking at job boards.

				When the office gossip is off-colour and the jokes are blue, sometimes people start grievance procedures. If you are subject to discriminatory behaviour or language the law is there to protect you. However most unacceptable behaviour falls in a legal grey area, and starting formal procedures requires some hard battling and increased isolation.

				Should Tess adopt a new personality at work, try out new behaviours, or learn to keep silent? Few people are happy with such compromises because they feel unnatural - and if there is a mark of a good job, it is that you take your authentic self to work, and people value you for what you are, not what you pretend to be.

				What can we do to predict and manage such situations?

				Firstly, we need more care around the job offer. Most of us know far too little about working cultures before we start; you review the website and read glowing promises from employers and sales pitches from recruiters. You spend just an hour or so in the interview room with people you’ll rarely see again, and you have little idea of the chemistry of the workplace.

				Before you take a job, perform a culture check. You don’t need to be pushy to do this, and it’s probably pointless trying to do it during the interview. Don’t accept employer statements about the engaged workforce - most organisations make the same bland claims. Talk to people who know, including past and present employees, contractors and consultants. Find out how long people typically stay and why the previous post holder moved on - and if staff recommend this employer to friends and neighbours as a great place to work.

				You can’t use the job interview to discover this information. Ask ‘what’s it like to work here?’, and you’ll hear positive noise. Two months in, those promises feel like claims from a second-hand car salesman. Now you discover what’s going on under the bonnet - high staff turnover, power play, and unhappy staff.

				A culture check helps later when you’re in the role, but it’s difficult to perform alone on your glum commute. Find someone to give you bias-free feedback and help decode the organisation. Have you misinterpreted signals and over-reacted? Could you adapt better? Get an objective picture from someone you can trust, perhaps a mentor or former employee - someone to give you an honest answer to the question ‘is it me?’





	OceanofPDF.com





Can Social Media Solve Your Career Problems?


				Yasmina is full of enthusiasm: ‘I’ve heard that you can Tweet yourself into job interviews’, she says, ‘and anyway, I’ve registered with every job board I can find, so I’ve got things covered.’

				In past recessions job hunters stayed at home in case the phone rang; in today’s connected world you’d expect everyone to be out there, but too many interact with screens rather than people. Sitting at home staring at your computer might look like work, but it will extend your job search time.

				Social media is a powerful tool in job change if you use it correctly, and that means understanding that it works best when it builds real world relationships. Too many people hide behind email, but savvy job seekers know that social media works when you go beyond online contact; pick up the phone to people you know and work at getting face-to-face conversations with people you don’t.

				The Web is a fantastic research tool, but a poor tool for communication. A tweet is forgotten in microseconds, and email in 3-4 minutes, a telephone call forgotten after half an hour, but a good face-to-face meeting (followed up by a thank you note) can be remembered for 6 months or more. The return on investment is clear.

				Making a big life change is about relationships - finding stuff out, talking to people who can give you ideas and encouragement, making connections. Your relationship needs to be with people, not with Google, but the best way to find and contact the right people now is to use online networks - creating your own, building on other people’s connections, joining in online communities.

				Searching in the hidden job market is all about managing your visibility, and your online presence is like your shop window in the high street. How are people going to find you and recommend you? How long does it take to find you online, and what will someone discover? Don’t confuse work with play - use separate accounts for anything you want to be visible to employers, and only post work-related items on accounts such as LinkedIn.

				Users of LinkedIn know that strap lines count. The first is a phrase that summarises the work you do, the second any of the job roles that are current for you. Look at this information as carefully as you would examine the opening section of your CV - does it help the busy user understand what kind of work you do?

				Twitter, too, can get you noticed. Follow target employers, job tweets, relevant bloggers and experts, use hashtags picked up in relevant discussions, and check on tweets issued by anyone interviewing you this week.

				Career transition is about who you choose to get to know. The great advantage of social media is that you can make more contacts at greater speed than you could have done in the past. If you use the right tools your contacts will update themselves so you have no difficulty keeping in touch in the future.

				In a tough market an average job search strategy gives you below-average results. So take another look at social media tools and use them thoughtfully and frequently enough to maintain your visibility.





	OceanofPDF.com





Hits and Misses


				Don’t allow junk statistics to derail your job search

				Today my client Tariq has brought along a folder of evidence to prove beyond doubt that there’s no point continuing his job search. ‘I’ve applied for 200 jobs’, he says, ‘got 4 interviews, one second interview, and zero job offers.’ Tariq is not alone in ironically counting his rejection letters, or in believing that the odds are so stacked against him that it’s not worth putting the energy into job search.

				A wise colleague reminded how careful we need to be about counting ‘failures’. Tariq’s job search might suggest he is hitting one out of 200 targets, which feels long enough odds to start to undermine confidence. ‘Look, that proves it’, he says, ‘My CV isn’t working. I don’t have the right experience. I’d better lower my sights...’ That kind of voice in your head can easily persuade you to radically adjust your job search plan.

				The problem is that Tariq, like many job hunters, is using junk statistics. If you count every rejection as a failure you will make random adjustments to your strategy - without any genuine feedback on what is going right or wrong. If you get an interview you’ll hear ‘we had candidates who were a better match for the role’, which tells you nothing.

				There are all kinds of reasons why you might not get a job offer. Most of them are arbitrary and nothing to do with you. Organisations are sometimes unsure what they want, or change their minds part way through the process. Sometimes recruitment freezes or changes in policy move the goalposts, and jobs are redesigned on the hoof. Alternatively, you may be up against an internal candidate informally promised the job.

				If you’re one of those people who uses rejection letters to justify giving up on the job market, look again at your results. Think of 3 zones on your job application dartboard. Firstly your wild shots - jobs where you are an unlikely candidate, and uninteresting jobs you applied ‘for the experience’. Secondly, the outer ring - these are jobs where you will always be an outside candidate and will struggle to get short-listed because others have more appropriate skills. And finally, applications for jobs where you are a strong contender and a great match. How many of the jobs you have applied for are that close to the bull’s eye? These applications are the only ones that count in terms of statistics and feedback.

				If rejections come from anywhere else on the dartboard, ignore them, and work harder at finding jobs that really do feel like number one choices. Rethink your job search strategy, not your interview technique; you just aren’t getting in front of the right people.

				If you keep applying for target centre jobs and you don’t get beyond first base, you either need a reality check or (more likely) a more efficient CV. What do you do if you are genuinely getting interviews for jobs you could do well, where you have relevant skills, qualifications and motivation - and you are never the chosen candidate? Work at being a different kind of interviewee. This may not mean a complete overhaul - small tweaks to your performance may be enough.

				Job applications as a game of darts? It’s a pretty good analogy. Jobseekers often start with a tight set of requirements (organisation, job type, salary, challenge), but if their initial job search gives them typical results they decide to become ‘more realistic’. Very soon they are lowering their sights on things like location, travel distance, and - trashing their own goals.

				My question to Tariq is this: If you’re not hitting the centre, do you want a bigger dartboard, or do want to learn to aim properly? Learn how to find more people and organisations close to the bull’s eye rather than wasting energy on wild shots. You get very different results, plus relevant interview feedback you can really work with.





	OceanofPDF.com





Who Are You Talking To?


				Letting people know where you want your career to go next

				Julie has firm views about privacy. ‘How I get on in my job hunting is nobody else’s business’, she says, ‘I’ll tell my friends when I get a new job, but I’m not going to go begging favours’.

				Research published by Gumtree.com suggested that many people are uncomfortable telling other people that they’re looking for a job. 26% of those surveyed said their job search was private, and many said that they didn’t like asking for help, or were embarrassed to say they were looking for work. 20% said that they keep it a secret that they are unemployed or job hunting.

				Even in a lively market it’s an uphill struggle finding a job without other people to help you. In a tough market isolation is a great way of avoiding choices altogether. The Gumtree survey showed that a third of jobseekers feel they sell themselves poorly because they find it hard to talk about their skills and abilities. Getting used to talking to people makes all the difference.

				Start by telling people what you’re interested in. You may be amazed at the people you know who can help. At the same time, ask trusted friends or colleagues to remind you what you’re good at and where you’ve made a difference so you can catalogue your strengths in a commanding CV. Test it on people with hiring experience, but ask the key question: ‘what does my CV say to you?’ - then decide if the answer you hear tells a coherent career story.

				Next, get even more focused. Get used to relaxed conversations about the work you’d like to do. Tell people the sectors you want to know more about, and the organisations and individuals you want to speak to. Include family, friends, even people you’re standing next to at the supermarket check-out.

				Prepare a crisp 2-minute summary of your main skills and your sector experience. Often it helps to avoid using old job titles. Try starting sentences ‘I am a person who...’ and see what ideas people come up with.

				You need other people during a job search, particularly an extended one which is likely to wear you down. Their contribution is threefold. They help you maintain your confidence, support you with knock-backs, and provide you with leads and connections. Keeping your job hunt an embarrassed secret simply adds to the time you’ll spend doing it.

				We love to hide behind the cynical phrase ‘It’s not what you know, it’s who you know’. This can be a great excuse for failing to sharpen up what you know and not working hard to make new contacts. The sentence should really end ‘who you choose to get to know’. Yes, some jobs are still given to insiders - family, friends, people who went to your school or share some other tribal allegiance, but far more often the job goes to someone who is just plain visible and out there.

				You’re most likely to get any job through somebody you talk to in the next three months - people you already know, people you have yet to meet. No matter your age, class or background, the best tool for finding things out is talking to people, and building long-term relationships with the people you meet is often the key to a satisfied career.





	OceanofPDF.com





In The Zone


				Networking isn’t a dirty word - it’s an essential part of your job search

				In a competitive market it’s easy to feel that there are few vacancies, and the few jobs available are very hard to reach. You’re working hard in your job search, but most of the time this means using the Internet, sitting at your computer screen. It feels productive to email your CV and register on job boards, and it’s especially satisfying because it looks like work - but does it succeed? It’s time to improve your odds.

				Talk to friends who have found new jobs this year. Ask them how they found their new roles, and you’ll discover how many people ‘fell across’ opportunities or landed ‘in the right place at the right time’. You may feel your friends have more talent or luck, but there are other factors at play. Consciously or not your friends did something different to move luck in their direction. They spent less time staring at screens, and more time in face-to-face conversations. Breakthroughs happen when you have the kind of conversation when you say something about your strengths and the kind of work you’re looking for to someone who can help.

				Why are lucky breaks more likely if you see someone in person? The reason is simple. How long do you remember an email or a telephone call? How long do you remember a friendly meeting where someone followed up with a thank you note? Real conversations stick in memory.

				Francois, out of work for 4 months, hates networking. He says he has bored everyone he knows with his story, and doesn’t want to experience further knock-backs. He feels a bit of a fake when he asks people for help, and worries that he is being a nuisance asking for special favours.

				Then Francois starts to work out the odds. Even in a buoyant market employers fill jobs through word-of-mouth, and in a tough market, it’s the method of choice because it’s free and effective to talk to people you already know.

				Don’t believe that networking is ‘old school tie’, or only for managers or self-promoters. It’s about expanding your horizons, meeting new people, and making sure they remember 2-3 positive pieces of information - what you’re good at and have to offer. Begin with contacts from work, family, and friends, and start with your natural curiosity. What sectors or organisations would you like to know about? Who do you know who knows someone who’s doing an interesting job? Don’t ring people cold - get people to pass you on with a warm introductions which explains what you’re trying to discover.

				There is one measure of success in the hidden job market - your name comes up at the same time as a job-shaped problem. This isn’t a matter of chance. Tell people what you’re looking for - talk about a mix of ingredients in a role rather than using job titles. Be prepared to talk about what you have to offer - don’t rely on your CV to open doors for you. Don’t approach people cold, saying ‘you don’t know me, but...’ - ask for warm introductions and you’ll get them.

				If you’re shy or fear rejection, keep talking to people you know until you gain the confidence to break into new territory. Put some old misconceptions to rest: it isn’t about begging for a job, exploiting everyone you know, or being part of a closed club. It’s about asking for honest help that others are often very happy to provide.

				Seek real people in real jobs, and don’t waste the opportunity by asking for CV advice - find out as much as you can about jobs and organisations and you will equip yourself for future job applications. More importantly, you’ll be remembered.

				Networking isn’t about killer statements or doling out business cards, but by stepping just outside your comfort zone you can find interesting people and seriously improve your visibility when most jobs are hard to spot.





	OceanofPDF.com





Networking for Softies


				Sofia is looking for a job, and knows the best way of getting one. ‘I know I’m most likely to get a job through talking to someone I know’, she admits, ‘but I just can’t start the ball rolling. I just don’t know where to start, or what to say that doesn’t sound cheesy or like begging’.

				The word ‘networking’ raises all kinds of fears - are you going to have to ‘work the room’, give out business cards, deliver an elevator pitch? We need a new word to describe a new activity that is a mix of investigation, low-key broadcasting of your message, and plain old asking for help. Whatever it’s called, it will shorten your job search. In a tight market, the best tool for moving on is through the hidden job market, which is all about talking to people.

				The first mistake is to believe that the conversation is primarily about you. Adept networkers begin by focusing on the person they are talking to. You’ll learn a huge amount about target organisations and sectors by asking ‘how did you get into this line of work?’ and ‘what’s changing in this sector?’ Even the question ‘what do you enjoy about your job?’ can provide insights into real jobs and great ammunition for interviews.

				So the primary reason for having a conversation isn’t self-promotion, but organised discovery. You find out what’s out there, and you pick up the language organisations use to describe star performers.

				If you hate networking, call it something else. Call it catching up with your friends. Start with close friends and contacts, because this group will give you plenty of support and will tolerate mistakes or changes of direction. However, next time you meet a friend for coffee, structure the conversation. Ask for reminders of what you’re good at, and what you’ve achieved. Talk about what you’re looking for and the kind of people you would like to have conversations with. Don’t go home without asking the question ‘who else should I be talking to?’

				Networking for softies means avoiding mistakes that will feel like setbacks. Like the cold rebuff you get when you start a phone call saying ‘you don’t know me, but...’. Like approaching high level contacts too early in the process - when you’re still feeling bruised by redundancy and you don’t know what you’re looking for.

				Starting with small steps means spending the first month or so talking to people who are encouragers, but asking them questions you’ve never asked before about people they know. Try this with friends, relatives, neighbours, even family - you’ll be surprised at the ideas and great connections they come up with. The next step of course is to get someone to make the introduction for you, to hand you on comfortably so that the next person in the chain knows what kind of help you need.

				When you’ve practised your technique, follow up on introductions, and as you start to talk to people you don’t know the breakthroughs begin. Keep on asking for information, ideas and connections. Be honest about what you’re asking for - make it clear that you are setting up brief conversations with a range of people to find out what goes on under the bonnet in a particular sector. Ask people for things they are happy to deliver - not CV advice or a job interview, but a good conversation about the world the post holder knows well.

				From being a networking softie you can become good enough to move on within a month or so to that all-important next tier - new people in new organisations.

				And when the conversation inevitably turns round to you, talk briefly and clearly about your experience, what you do well, and what you’re looking for. No cheesy one-liners or slick pitch is required, just two or three quietly rehearsed sentences that make sure your clear message is remembered.





	OceanofPDF.com





Shouting and Whispering


				The dangers of overselling or underselling your strengths

				Alexis isn’t getting shortlisted for roles and has been advised that he needs to ‘get out there and sell himself’. Alexis feels very uncomfortable and doesn’t want to come across as another pushy networker.

				The problem with much advice in today’s market is that it assumes everybody can become an in-your-face networker overnight, and that if you can’t pitch and sell yourself confidently there’s no point seeking face to face meetings. However the very idea of selling yourself can get in the way.

				Remember the last time someone practised their elevator pitch on you at a meeting? You get the fake smile, the vice-like handshake, and then the speech: “Let me tell you about what I do and what I’m looking for. I started 12 years ago in pharmaceutical sales, and...” You discover a sudden compulsion to get away from the person who wants to talk about himself, apparently forever.

				Advice to ‘sell yourself’ means that some people end up sounding vain, egotistical - and unconvincing. Most people don’t enjoy being bombarded with sales language. They’d rather talk about what they need than listen to a sales speech, and they distrust any approach which pushes them into doing something uncomfortable.

				Getting in front of people helps you shorten your job search time, builds relationships and makes sure you’re remembered. So the alternative shouldn’t be silence or staying at home in front of your computer.

				The important thing is to find an authentic voice, and practise using it. Start by learning how to make small talk and ask questions about what other people are looking for. Remember that the conversation will come round to you eventually, so rehearse something that feels like a slightly upbeat version of the real you.

				Instead of feeling you have to describe your strengths or list your achievements as if you’re a candidate on The Apprentice, try talking about the things you find most interesting. ‘I’m fascinated by...’ is much easier to say than ‘I’m good at...’ You’ll also find it more straightforward to talk about what you enjoy doing than trying to assert your skills.

				Think of the range of TV adverts you see every day. Some are brazen, loud, unattractive. You immediately want to hit the mute button. Some people are like that in networking conversations, wanting to get their pitch across at all costs. Other TV adverts are subtle, artistic, heart-warming - but can you remember what they are advertising? Enjoying the message and remembering it is what works.

				Two other great techniques are also easier than a hard sell. The first is to talk about discoveries you’ve made, people you’ve met and interviewed. This shows you are proactive and energised enough to get out there and talk to key people in your target sector.

				The second is to let your curiosity overflow. Ask lots of questions (smart questions, based on good research). Ask people about their stories rather than always telling them yours.

				The trick is to find the right balance between over-selling, which is painful to the listener, and under-selling, which means that people are left with nothing to remember. Don’t allow your reluctance to be a big mouth suppress speech altogether. Remember however that you don’t have to bombard people with statements and facts, just leave a strong impression of the things you find most captivating - and how someone might help you take your investigations further.





	OceanofPDF.com





Keeping Your Head Down


				Are you hiding in a safe but dull job?

				Simon’s job didn’t turn out to be quite as promised. ‘I decided to keep my head down and be glad I’ve got a job’, he says, ‘but last month a junior colleague was promoted ... and today I didn’t get invited to an important meeting’.

				Working hard and being semi-visible is an age-old career strategy. It’s very popular right now. Organisations are cutting back, so surely this is a bad time to be thinking about building your career? In fact, in the current market employers are working hard to make the most of talent. When people tend to stay rather than move, career development becomes a bigger issue.

				It’s lazy thinking to assume you have to put your career on hold because the economy is in freeze-frame. There are about 29 million people working in the UK, and some will make good job moves or get promotions this month. Taking a job with poor prospects ‘because it came along’ may give you a CV headache down the line.

				If you’re in a job, you’re probably striving harder to keep it than 5 years ago, and the organisation will most likely be flatter with less obvious options for advancement. Think about career development rather than just about promotion. Many organisations are very focused on people development at the moment, but find it difficult to offer pay rises or advancement. All work is of course a deal, so what else can you ask for? Look at the range of things that might be available, and what works for you personally.

				You might want more variety. Don’t complain if your job is routine - ask to do something different some of the time. Your career will almost certainly be revitalised by other opportunities which are relatively low risk and low cost - learning opportunities, for example, or the chance to attach yourself to a new team or project.

				Career conversations don’t work if you expect to be given all the answers. Make positive suggestions about how your job might grow or change. Offer outcomes which help you and your employer. Research your present employer as carefully as if it was a major new customer you were trying to win.

				Ask for a promotion if you think one might be possible, but make sure you already look the part. Almost everyone today has been asked to take on more at work, so claiming extra workload or increased responsibility doesn’t cut it - show how you are doing relatively complicated things that make a big difference to the organisation.

				Don’t go anywhere near this kind of discussion without clear evidence of what you have added to your role in the last 12 months, and where you have made a difference. Also, be ready to think on your feet if you don’t get everything you want. Probe alternatives such as learning opportunities, extending the range of your job, secondments to other teams. Ask for an early review date.

				Don’t threaten to look elsewhere - that simply sidelines you until you move out. Keep offering potential solutions, looking for opportunities to make your job grow, and (often after asking more than once) you’ll start to get a little more of what you want - shaping your job rather than rushing to the job market for a much more random result.





	OceanofPDF.com





Job Hunt Roulette


				I’m starting a session with Zena, a new client. ‘I’ve applied for hundreds of jobs in the last two months’, she says, ‘and I feel I’m wasting my time’.

				I imagine we’re sitting in a casino looking at a roulette table. Each oblong on the tabletop represents one way someone might land a job. One is labelled advertised positions, for example, and others direct applications, job boards, recruitment agencies, internships, and word of mouth. Where do we place our chips? It’s clear that some zones give much better odds. To some these facts are obvious, to some a mystery.

				I ask two questions. The first is ‘how are you looking for a job right now, and how is that working out for you?’. Zena, like many, answers about difficulties getting interviews, and the slow grind of job searching in a market full of knock-backs and - even worse - organisations that never respond at all.

				The second question is: ‘Imagine it’s 3 months down the line and you’ve got a job. Work backwards. Tell me, step by step, how you got it’. Even the most ardent non-networker will usually volunteer they will have found the job through a series of conversations. The ultimate conversation is with a decision maker at a target organisation, but most conversations along the way are with fairly ordinary people with a remarkably useful ability: they know where people are working.

				Statistically, in most economies at least one third of people find jobs through word of mouth. Above entry level or in specialised sectors, the proportion of jobs filled by conversations and introductions can be anything up to 80%.

				Putting your money on the word of mouth roulette option isn’t guaranteed to work every time. People still find jobs through other methods as well (well-pitched unsolicited applications can be great door-openers, and recruitment agencies can get you in front of people very quickly). However, unlike any square on a real roulette table, this one pays out most of the time. Rather than spending days, if not weeks, online, you’re more likely to meet a decision maker by asking the right questions, by being curious, by asking who else should I be talking to?

				Sometimes people who have never looked for a job before get the best results. They have no preconceptions about job hunting, but they know that they are a seller and an employer is a buyer. They instinctively know that you have much more chance of a sale if you see people face to face.

				Multi-strategy job search means working smarter, not harder. Use multiple job search methods simultaneously, with the greatest emphasis on whatever mix of activities gets the right message out there fast, and shortens your job search time.

				You don’t have to be a brash extravert or oversell yourself - that’s counterproductive. Just keep on putting most of your energy into the activity that works best. Keep asking, follow your curiosity, and be clear what you’re looking for, which is always a warm introduction - so you never have to make a phone call beginning you don’t know me, but...

				Keep leaning on doors. Some of them are already half open. Behind one or two of them is an introduction to a decision maker, and therefore a chance to consider a job before it’s advertised.





	OceanofPDF.com





Imagining Your Next Job


				Gunther is thinking about a career change. He says ‘I want to do something different - a role that feels more worthwhile - but I haven’t a clue what kind of job that means’.

				Many of us believe in the idea of a secret career solution - either it’s hidden away deep inside us, or it’s a perfect job somewhere ‘out there’ we have yet to discover.

				The answer is probably somewhere between the two. The idea that there’s a mystery job out there with your name on can be a great excuse for waiting rather than looking.

				Gunther may have more clues available that he imagines. Like others he believes that if he spends time taking the right online tests he will get the answer, but in fact he starts to make progress just by remembering his past choices and considering his preferences. Begin by looking at yourself, because new roles become much more visible once you understand the major components you’re looking for in a career.

				I ask him to remember the jobs he imagined or play-acted when he was a child. Shopkeeper? Postman? Policeman? As children we see the most visible jobs, yet the ones we incorporate into play often provide indicators of jobs we would love to do. The match isn’t automatic –your childhood dream of being a polar explorer or cowboy won’t be much use with the Help Wanted section. However, break these early job ideas down into their component parts and you have the beginnings of a working mix of job content.

				Many early career instincts remain constant drivers as we get older. An early obsession with animals, the outdoors, machinery, people, pictures, or music is usually a fairly strong indicator of the area of work that is worth exploring. The difficulty is that life doesn’t offer you solutions which are an exact match. Your childhood interest in Art doesn’t fit well into a market which provides few paid opportunities for practising Artists, so think laterally about where your skills, interests and focus will find a niche.

				How do you do this? Career ideas are like new clothes. You can stare at them in a shop window, or you can try them on. Track down several people who are doing the work you’d love to do - and those doing something like it. You discover entry paths, but also you find the hidden sub-sectors that are rarely revealed by advertised positions.

				Put the energy you waste in daydreams into finding out. There are shortcuts - for example the fascinating website www.icould.com offers inspiration in the form of short videos of hundreds of people telling you what their jobs are all about, ranging from well-known jobs like Management Consultant through to rarer beasts such as embalmer, stunt coordinator, and brand guardian.

				As soon as you get a career idea translate it quickly into a face-to-face conversation. Ask around to find people who have made the kind of change you want to achieve, and listen to their stories. Ask people who have made big career leaps about their breakthrough conversations, and learn from their mistakes. Keep asking so you find out what’s really out there, and be ready to look at surprising alternatives - careers you never heard of before, and pathways which offer a far better fit than you expected.





	OceanofPDF.com





Asking for What You Want


				Improving your career deal

				Danni is 47 and has been turned down for promotion twice. ‘People tell me I should be banging the table’, she says. ‘Even though my employer keeps telling me I’m doing a great job, people are getting promoted ahead of me.’

				Statistically women earn less than men, and repeated surveys show they are less confident when asking for a promotion or pay rise. Psychologists suggest women are brought up to be accommodating and undemanding, while boys often learn the art of self-promotion at an early age. The results may seem unfair - abrasive, pushy men get top jobs, but the same quality in women is seen as aggressive and manipulative.

				Do you find it difficult to ask for what you want in the workplace? This has bigger consequences than you might imagine. Patiently waiting to be noticed is passive behaviour which can signal not just lack of ambition but lack of commitment.

				Danni’s problem is that she has adopted the motto ‘work hard and keep your head down’ as a career strategy. For her this feels like patient modesty, but for the last 10 years this approach has signalled that she isn’t interested in moving up the ladder, and therefore not really motivated about anything in work.

				Even though we know that work psychology is complicated, we still see ambition in black and white. Either you are full-on ambitious, or you’re meek, mild and wait to be offered crumbs from the corporate table.

				Look around for mid-range role models - people who bang the table firmly but in a controlled, calm way. If you want a pay rise, offer a work-related reason. Talk about what you have added to your role - with tangible examples of where you have saved money, delighted customers, won business, or deputised for someone more senior. Practice by negotiating deals and discounts in your life outside work - it sharpens up your resilience to the word ‘no’.

				Even in a recession it usually costs an employer more to replace you than to renegotiate your career deal, but don’t wander into reviews unprepared. In conversations about advancement always have a plan B ready in case of refusal. Ask for an early review date, or ask for something else - more flexible working, perhaps, or a learning opportunity. Ask for things which are relatively easy for an employer to offer, for example an opportunity to be attached to a different project, or the chance to develop new skills by changing part of your job.

				If your boss hates surprises, pitch your case in writing before you meet. Make a business case (what can happen if you and your employer forge a new working agreement) rather than an emotional one - anything that sounds like ‘I feel undervalued’ is giving your manager a problem she can’t solve. If a promotion or pay rise is possible, ask for it, but justify your case.

				Some people push negotiations until someone starts shouting, but if you’re not a natural table-thumper, don’t wait for opportunity to find you - the world of work is too frenetic to notice understated performances. Learn to ask, gently but very clearly, for what you want, offer options if you don’t get the right offer, and always ask for a review within 6 months to keep the discussion open.





	OceanofPDF.com





Should I Jump Ship or Wait for a Brilliant Role?


				Michelle has emailed me this morning: ‘I was lucky enough to find a new job nine months ago, but for various reasons it doesn’t feel like it was a good move. I’m bored and not being stretched. Should I quit and take a temporary role to stop going mad, or should I stay in this job until I can find an interesting permanent role?’

				If you find yourself at a career crossroads, knowing how you got there is as important as the next stage of the journey. If you feel uncomfortable in your current role, ask yourself if it’s the organisation, your boss, your colleagues, or your daily task sheet? Knowing which problems you are trying to solve and which ones you hope not to repeat is a key issue in job change.

				Deciding whether to go or stay is a two-step process. The first step is to look, objectively, at what you can change about your current role. Perhaps you can learn new skills or change the main focus of the job? If this also benefits your employer you may have a fighting chance of changing jobs without leaving the organisation. Use the short term as a method of defining what you like and dislike in a role, but also as an opportunity of cataloguing your successes. It’s often useful to find someone who can help you see the difference between how you feel about your role and the realities of the job market.

				Which takes us to step two. If you’re going to move on, do so for solid reasons. Short-term positions may be a good trade-off between insecurity and learning opportunities, but you may have difficulty explaining this section of your CV in future years if it looks like you moved on for uncertain reasons and learned little from temporary positions.

				Your final strategy of holding out for ‘an interesting permanent role’ sounds logical, but you seem to be accepting a period of demotivation. If your strategy is that you will jump ship when things become unbearable, beware of moving on to something that simply feels different, rather than something that enhances your career. In addition, looking for a new role when you’re feeling downhearted will usually lead to knock-backs, so a job search launched out of frustration rarely gets you what you want.

				In summary, be clear about what is and isn’t working, and what you can fix. Make sure you perform a thorough audit of the skills, know-how and achievements in your career kitbag, and if you go to the market, have a clear reason for doing so, ideally emphasising the attractions of new opportunities rather than the frustrations you want to leave behind.





	OceanofPDF.com





Money Talks


				What really motivates you in work?

				Hugo is recruiting new staff for his business. He’s cynical about the reasons people seek work: ‘Basically, people go to work for a pay cheque. Everything else is window dressing.’

				Research published by Gumtree’s job hub discovered that 45% of men are primarily motivated by money when they’re looking for a new job. This compares with only 25% of women rating salary as the most important aspect. Gumtree’s research interestingly also suggested that money was becoming the top career driver for workers over the age of 55, possibly because of insecurity over pension investments and retirement age.

				In some parts of the UK workers seem to have very different drivers, putting more emphasis on work/life balance, or choosing to do jobs (for example teaching or HR work) which are focused on people rather than information and systems.

				How strong is money as a motivator, and is it the real reason we go to work?

				That question is partially answered by the many people who work in unpaid roles, sometimes purely for job satisfaction. Many lottery winners, after playing with their winnings for a couple of years, return to something like work (although not necessarily full-time). Many get a lot more out of work than money. When people retire from work they don’t miss the commute or the pressure of deadlines, but we do often miss other things we take for granted, including companionship, feedback when you’re doing well, work that helps others, or doing something to the best of your ability.

				Look, too, at the struggles some employers face trying to retain key staff, and keep people motivated when they’re bored with the job. The author Daniel Pink reveals in his book Drive that paying people more is far less effective than giving them jobs where they can display mastery, feel a sense of purpose, and have a sense of autonomy- having some control over how you do what you do.

				However money will seem paramount if you’re short of it, or if you have bills you can’t pay. Needing a payslip makes the difference between a desultory job search and really getting out there and looking.

				If you’re asked to take a pay cut, or if you feel underpaid in relation to your level of responsibility, this can be a powerful demotivator. People who feel undervalued often show symptoms of being under-engaged and less committed, and therefore look less useful or promotable.

				A vague feeling that you are worth more isn’t enough. Research the pay range available for the work you do, and work out not just what the top 10% earn, but what they do to get it.

				Even more importantly, think about the things that will motivate you to stay in a job in the long term. Having a career plan requires thinking ahead so you know how you will shape your job when it starts to become routine or repetitive. Smart employers work out what they are doing to hang on to their most energised talent, often offering an intelligent mix of personal development, job expansion and variety, and frequent opportunities to learn or pass on skills.

				Dan Pink might perhaps have the last word on motivation. He suggests that most people really have one question at work: was I better today than yesterday?





	OceanofPDF.com





Will I Like It?


				How do you know if a new role will suit you?

				Georgia feels she could do a hundred different jobs, but can’t choose. ‘My worry is this’, she says: ‘what if I do something new and then discover I don’t like it?’

				Even when the economy struggles we have a far wider range of jobs to choose from than any previous generation. This causes its own difficulties, since few of us have the mental toolkit to choose one career path from thousands.

				Your first ideas probably arose from the subjects you excelled at in school. The problem is that it’s not at all easy to make simple connections between examination subjects and career paths. School subjects offer a very broad foundation - being good at art or science, for example, doesn’t mean you’ll be an artist or scientist.

				When it comes to deciding what we want to do for a living, we don’t know where to begin. How do you sort out the difference between a wacky idea and a dream career plan?

				The first step is to be clear about what drives you. Review past jobs and tick off the times you’ve been captivated by work, using skills you find motivating. Think about work environments and teams you’ve found stimulating, and also about the work outcomes that make you feel you’ve had a good day.

				Once you’ve got a clear picture what works for you, turn your attention outward to the world of work. Here you’ll need to employ a far wider mix of research activities than you thought necessary - and the most powerful is talking to people doing the kind of work you’d love to do. Learn to be a curious investigator about pathways - how do people get into lines of work? What do employers in these fields look for, and how do they describe top performers?

				Some of the occupations you discover will be covered by careers guides and websites, but remember that in a fast-changing economy new sub-sectors and niche jobs are created every day. Your best way of discovering new fields is hardly ever through job ads and always through conversations with people working in roles you think look interesting. Keep asking what other kinds of organisations should I be looking at?

				Narrow your choice down to four or five sectors which look exciting, then move your research into a new gear. Ask the big questions. Taking any role without knowing what’s in store is a high risk strategy.

				Georgia’s question, ‘will I like it?’ reveals she intends to follow an inactive approach - not doing any research on a role outside the interview process.

				Before accepting a job offer in an entirely new sector, ask around. Find people who have swapped sectors and made the kind of changes that look difficult to you right now - you’ll learn from their mistakes and their resilience.

				However the best tool at your fingertips is another great question: what will I be doing most of the time? Employers want to sell you the glamorous aspects of the job, but your focus should be on the tasks that will fill your working hours, and working out the results which look like success. Drilling down to this level of detail allows you to judge the difference between the way a job is dressed up and what it looks like under the covers.





	OceanofPDF.com





Career Traps


				Are you getting in the way of your own success?

				Your career starts to rise or fall from the very first day you join an organisation. Falling into what work psychologists call the Set Up To Fail Syndrome, managers sense from the outset whether you’re a potential winner or loser. They reinforce this hunch by allocating plum tasks to those who look like future stars - and killer projects for those they believe will fail.

				Usually this first response from a manager is an instinctive response to your actions in those first few weeks when everyone smiled benevolently because you hadn’t learned the ropes, and all the time you were going through an unannounced audition for a part on the main stage.

				Career blocks can arise from external circumstances, difficult colleagues or confused goals, but we’re perfectly capable of sabotaging our own careers with little outside help. Most career traps are designed, set and operated by ourselves. The skill of managing your career is working out where you want to be and not getting in the way of your progress.

				Career traps are sometimes obvious. For example parking in the MD’s spot or being sick on your financial director at the office party is unlikely to help. It’s generally best to avoid copying any part of your anatomy on the office photocopier, and avoid any language or attachments in office email that you wouldn’t be comfortable sharing with your grandparents. For sheer self-protection, always think twice before pressing ‘send’ on any email that says something difficult - save it, rethink, and consider having the conversation in person.

				Other career traps are rather more subtle - the booby traps we lay for ourselves when we are actively trying to do the right things in the job. Sometimes people find themselves working in a specialism that isn’t central to the business, or working too hard on projects that don’t really matter. Self-laid traps can also be about aligning yourself with out-of-date systems, or a reluctance to keep learning.

				Sticking to your job description is the biggest career trap of all. Keep the changing needs of your organisation in mind; research your employer as carefully as if it was a major new account you were trying to win.

				Career traps are usually avoided by working smarter, not harder - this means anticipating the emotional impact of your work - whose toes will your new project tread on? Who will feel aggrieved if you claim an idea, or irritated when you suggest innovation? Whose pet project will you trash when you change things? Learn how to spot the minefields and you might just have a chance to navigate through them.

				It’s worth remembering that people who will make decisions about your future often do so on the basis of very limited information - for example where you have made a verbal report to senior colleagues, or worked in a highly visible team. Think about doing things that are important and noticed. Volunteer for pilot schemes, multi-disciplinary projects and teams. Respond positively to new ideas even - but check their impact.

				Each organisation has its own unstated rules on confirming and recording decisions, and stepping too far one way or the other can signal your lack of fit. Learn what is acceptable and necessary, and always do it with a light touch rather than sounding prim. If you can’t get the tone right in an email, pick up the phone.

				Any remaining career traps are usually about your boss. Go to your manager with solutions rather than problems. Seek opportunities to deputise. Don’t always double-check every detail or hope to be 100% fireproof - learn when to take risks. If you do something that irritates your boss on a daily basis (perhaps you believe that a tidy desk is a sign of a sick mind), get over yourself and do things differently.





	OceanofPDF.com





Hitting the Ground Running


				Making a great start in a new job

				Sue has come for coaching session to help her think about making an impact in the first three months in a new role. ‘I want them to keep thinking they chose the right person’, she says.

				Your first two weeks in a job may have far more career impact than any other fortnight you spend in the role. Many managers admit that they make up their mind in the first few months about someone’s potential, and that at this point unconscious decisions are made about whether you are a long-term star or someone who may not be around for too long.

				Be careful if you’re tempted to suggest new ideas and working methods at this stage. Try not to criticise the way the job is already done. You might be able to make some tentative suggestions: share methods you have used, rather than telling people how things should be done. Better still, show some respect and enthusiasm for what you find rather than challenging everything from day one - you may be trampling on pet projects. Don’t make too many promises at this stage because you probably have no idea how many you can deliver.

				You’ve done a great deal of research to get to job offer. Keep digging. Absorb the company’s literature, spending time absorbing the language of the organisation. Pinning down the major problems and opportunities facing your organisation presents vital clues about career success. Soak up organisation charts, remembering the names and job titles of people that matter.

				Find out who the key people are in the organisation - the people who will make decisions about your future, the people who can make your job easier or can make it hell. Make a special effort to find information brokers - the people who know who does what, and who to ask.

				Learn operating practice quickly, particularly how much should be confirmed in writing, and how decisions are made. Probe the cycle of routine activities: don’t be caught napping by a sudden report deadline. Learn as much as you can about procedures and standards. Conformity may be boring, but it keeps you out of trouble in your first few weeks. It also signals your ability to learn systems quickly.

				Work out your company’s attitude to career development. What training is on offer, and how is it negotiated and justified? Who will take responsibility for your growth and learning? What is your organisation’s attitude to personal development, mentoring, and career development? More importantly, what is the organisation’s style? Are you expected to seek opportunities for growth, or is this seen as pushy?

				Look for quick wins. What is the biggest impact you can achieve in the shortest time, with the minimum of effort and resources? New managers often try to impose a template for change. This takes time, and meets resistance, but a better method is to spot problems which can be resolved obviously and cheaply. Decide, or seek permission, to implement two or three changes which are low on cost and high on imagination. But don’t forget to give praise and credit to the person who gave you the idea. And make sure you follow up - don’t be a one-hit wonder.





	OceanofPDF.com





High Stakes


				What your colleagues say about you could make or break your career

				Parveen is your new boss. This morning she is standing next to the coffee machine with a small group of your colleagues, and your name comes up. What gets said? The content that fills the next 30 seconds could shape your future in the job. How will your colleagues describe your working style? Will they describe the things you’re good at, the things you’ve done well, or will they say something about what makes you unhappy or frustrated?

				Managing your career is about managing your reputation. For a few months the novelty of a job fires you up, but once routine starts to kick in you feel differently. Four years ago, in a different market, you would have thought about moving on to a new role. In tougher times, you’ve decided to ride out the storm in a calm harbour. So here you are, operating on autopilot, and starting to feel resentful that nothing much is changing for you.

				And it’s starting to show. People have noticed a certain cynicism in the way you react to new initiatives. You work hard, but some colleagues are not sure what you do. When you ask for a promotion or more interesting tasks, you get a response you don’t understand. Now you’re starting to understand how much your ‘water cooler’ reputation matters. Listen around you at work to see how people’s reputations are shaped by these short bursts of information. Your future may hang on the details.

				People may say you’re helpful or pleasant, but when your name comes up, people also need to hear how you do a good job,: your expertise, your special knowledge, and your attitude. You’re not expecting others to sing your praises, merely to mention in passing one or two stories where you brought something to the party.

				You might be hoping for promotion this year, or at least some interesting new responsibilities. You may hope to be offered an interesting work or learning opportunity. How will this be decided?

				Let go of traditional ideas about how people get on in organisations. We’d like to believe that people progress because of year-round performance, but getting good appraisals simply flags you up as ‘competent’. It takes something extra to be a front runner.

				My client Rashid complains he wasn’t promoted and a less-experienced colleague is now supervising him. ‘I’ve done absolutely everything that was asked of me’, he says. ‘I’ve kept my head down and got some great results.’ The big question is - who knows? People believe that if they work hard, progression will follow. When it doesn’t, it’s easy to sound jaded or cynical, and this is the picture that leaks through to decision makers.

				Your image isn’t shaped by year-round activity, but by short moments of visibility where you are seen by key staff - you make a presentation when your MD is in the room, or you make an impact in a new team, or track down vital new research or a great new resource.

				Do you want to be noticed just a little more in 2012? You may be just two steps away from getting a tap on the shoulder.

				Step 1 – don’t just work hard, work hard on the things that matter. To see the difference, seek out the topics discussed at the highest level in your organisation. Work with a mentor more senior than you who can help decode the business, and show you the difference between activity and contribution.

				Step 2 – start to manage your reputation. Be more positive and open to change. Tell people where you’ve done something useful. Think particularly about your outside network - what 3 or 4 things will they say about you if your name comes up? Your reputation is entirely under your control. If you plant these key messages carefully, this is the information which represents you when you’re not in the room.





	OceanofPDF.com





Volunteering - The Real Deal


				Taking unpaid work with your eyes open

				Emma works as an unpaid intern in publishing. She started the role last autumn. How long should she stay? How is she going to make the most of this on her CV?

				Many people need to work for nothing to get onto the first rung of the career ladder - for some an unpaid internship is the only way of working in their target sector and getting relevant experience. In the past this used to be confined to the more competitive fields such as fashion or media, but now most large organisations have structured volunteer programmes.

				What impact does volunteering have on your career prospects? Does it make you look like a go-getter or a doormat? It’s often too easy to stay on as a volunteer and give yourself CV problems if you’re still volunteering 6 or 12 months later. The critical question is what volunteering will add to your skills and whether it will enhance your value to future employers.

				Let’s look at the dangers. One pitfall in working for nothing is that employers may leave you unsupervised while you undertake only low level tasks. Better placements include supervision, feedback, and development. It may suggest you’re happy to carry on working for nothing, or you haven’t yet properly started your career. With senior appointments the risk is that organisations place less value on your contribution and advice because they haven’t paid for it.

				One of the greatest spin-offs of volunteering can be exposure to new contexts and people, so it makes sense to interrogate potential opportunities before you jump into them. Even though you’re working for an organisation with great values and purposes you may still be stuck in a back room stuffing envelopes all day.

				Find out from agencies and employers what is considered the right length of time to stay in one internship before moving on. Keep in mind that while you are working it may be harder to find time for an active job search.

				All work is a deal, whether it’s paid or unpaid. You may feel the deal is entirely one-sided as your labour is given free of charge, but an employer has to manage your time. Seek a healthy a trade-off between your contribution and non-financial benefits. Work out what they might be in advance and negotiate the ones that matter most to you. Always seek something in return - your contribution will be valued more. Benefits you can negotiate as a volunteer include learning and development, but don’t take this for granted - it may only happen if you ask for it. Throw yourself at a variety of tasks, and keep a record of your learning, and useful contacts. Actively seek opportunities to develop new skills, even if this is just for part of the working week where you are attached to a different team.

				From the outset, think of each volunteer post as a project. Before committing yourself, negotiate regular feedback on your performance, a reference at the end of the assignment and introductions to key people. Take every chance you get to meet new people inside and outside the organisation. Your natural curiosity may prove to be a door opener.

				Volunteer workers often recognise that they have a ‘foot in the door’ - if a paid post comes up you are a known quantity with a distinct advantage over external candidates.

				If you apply for a job and you’re asked to do it unpaid for a period of time, don’t be offended by the suggestion. Continue to show strong interest in the organisation. You might indicate that this mode of working isn’t right for you at the moment, but you’d like to be considered for any paid roles that come up in the future.

				In future interviews, don’t say it was ‘just’ voluntary work. Good volunteering experiences allow you to get a real sense of how an employer sees you and make great connections.





	OceanofPDF.com





Overnight Success


				You don’t need to change everything in one leap

				We love the idea of overnight transformation - achieving career change overnight. The media loves stories of people who went from accountant to zookeeper over the course of a weekend. All it takes, it appears, is the right attitude and a little luck.

				It’s all linked to our obsession with celebrity, of course - stories of people who suddenly made it, unexpectedly broke through. If you think hard enough, it seems, career dreams can come true.

				Yes, they can - but almost never overnight, and rarely without a great deal of groundwork. While a small proportion of people will give up their day job and risk everything, for most people the strategy most likely to succeed is based on a step by step approach.

				For some this means trying on new modes of working to see if they fit. So someone thinking of setting up a new business will not only interview countless people who have followed this path, but will usually have worked in someone else’s business on evenings or days off. Others use secondment experiences or internships to find out what other roles and sectors feel like. For busy people working long hours this can be a challenge, but compared with the cost of not looking or changing, the investment in time is small. It’s easy to make change bigger than it is, for example by starting with the assumption that a job shift will require retraining or a drop in salary.

				In practical terms, moving ahead on a ‘small steps’ basis means starting to act and think differently. Start with decision making. We should all explore career options for a great deal longer than we do before jumping into decision mode. How many people do you know took a job because it ‘just came along’? Most career choices are relatively passive - something happens to cross your path at a time when you need a job. We need to be realistic about what actually happens when we think we are making career choices– a great deal of the time we just think in circles moving swiftly from ‘what if?’ to ‘yes, but’. Real choices are about finding out, properly, and then making planned moves.

				Look at it another way. How much more imaginative and determined would you be to make interesting connections and chase down possible career paths if you were employed to do it for someone else? If someone offered you £5,000 to spend two months finding interesting organisations, people and useful areas for investigation, you wouldn’t go back after 48 hours and say ‘I looked at a few things but you won’t like them’. That’s exactly how you may play the game when you do this for yourself. Imagine for a moment putting the energy that your risk-avoiding brain puts into saying ‘not for me’ or into open-minded discovery.

				For a start, you’d learn to avoid seeing the world of work in black and white terms. The nation’s favourite is ‘either I have a job I love, or a job that pays the bills’. That sentence alone rules out interesting middle ground possibilities.

				Rethinking your career strategy does produce tangible results, even in a downturn. It means challenging, even undermining, the market wisdom that there is nothing out there. Making small steps might be about developing interests, learning, spending time with people who are doing the job you’d love to do. It may mean exploring the options of portfolio working.

				Do you really need a completely new job? Naming an unattainable, fantasy career goal is often a great way of accepting zero change. A to Z in one leap is often painful. But perhaps A to D isn’t - moving across into a sector or opportunity which is close to where you are now but the beginning of a new direction. The toughest part of the journey for career explorers isn’t the last ten yards, but the first step.





	OceanofPDF.com





Do I Have to Take a Pay Cut to Change Career?


				Jen is not alone in claiming she has no idea what job she’d like to do, but wants to do something different. Like most clients she does in fact have some ideas but says ‘I can’t afford to take a drop in salary to start something new’.

				Many of those playing with the idea of career change place great emphasis on the costs of retraining and the pay sacrifices required to start a new career. One reason is that we make strong links between study and qualification choices and the idea of career choice. However, how many people do you know who are doing something entirely unrelated to their primary qualification? Training on the job is very common in a flexible economy.

				There are of course some roles which can only be performed if you have particular qualifications and training. Most jobs don’t, and even where advertised positions appear to require certain qualifications, it’s always worth tracking the alternative routes people take.

				If retraining is required, look at the range of options available from home study through to full-time education. Flexible options in education include part-time study and distance learning, and it’s interesting how much know-how you can pick up from books and online learning methods.

				Deciding that you can only change direction by giving up a great deal of time and money is a great excuse for not finding out what’s out there. Keep exploring, but hold the following questions in mind.

				Do you really need to stop to retrain? Why put your career on hold and pay for new qualifications if you can acquire skills another way? Qualifications and courses may have less impact on your CV than you think. Look at the full range of options including on the job training and voluntary work. Often all you need is a good insight into a new sector and an enthusiasm to be part of it, and you can pick up relevant skills along the way.

				Considering a course? . Talk to past students to find out if the course is the passport to success claimed. Take soundings from recruiters about whether the qualification is going to improve your employability or simply put a hole in your bank balance.

				Think about outcomes before you commit time and money. The key question is ‘what difference is this training going to make to my employability’? Get advice from recruiters in your target sector on whether retraining is going to enhance your CV or simply put your life on hold.

				Will you enjoy the learning? This may seem self-indulgent, but it matters - if you enjoy what you learn you will talk about it more enthusiastically at interview. Speak to current and past students and talk to the people who will actually be delivering your learning to find out whether learning will inspire you or be a chore.

				What else will I need? Paper qualifications are rarely enough - find out what employers are looking for in addition (you may well have to undertake at least one internship, and it may help if you can make other employer connections while studying). Don’t learn in a vacuum - from the outset start talking to people in your target sector - to add to your learning and to create a network to help you find your first role.





	OceanofPDF.com





This Advice is All Very Well, But My Situation is Different


				Dan has been reading my articles and comments: ‘This advice all sounds fine but I can’t see how it would work for me. You make it sound really easy when you say ‘go and talk to people’. How do I find them? Even if I could find them why would they want to talk to me? Where do I start?’

				Many people feel that their job, background or lack of confidence means that most advice is irrelevant. This response can of course be a way of avoiding activities which take you beyond your comfort zone.

				I’m indebted to my colleague Gill Best for her great coaching questions in these circumstances: ‘how do you know it won’t work for you? ... assume for a moment that it will work - what would you do first?’.

				There are sectors where networking will be less useful or relevant, for example if you’re applying for a graduate programme or internship, or chasing public sector roles, where a well-constructed application form may be all you need.

				If you’ve limited work experience and don’t naturally push yourself forward, your CV has got to do a lot of work on your behalf. So, giving more emphasis to tangible evidence of skills, experience and achievements will probably push you onto more shortlists.

				Next, if you lack confidence approaching people, that suggests your interview messages aren’t working. Rather than saying ‘that’s the way I am’ try finding someone you trust who can help lift your interview performance by drawing out the positive evidence hidden in your experience.

				If you’re not good at talking to strangers, learn how to get the best out of Internet research. Look at what your job is called in other sectors and contexts - so you know what to put into search engines. Pick up the language employers use to describe preferred candidates, and use that language in your CV. Track down active agencies and interesting employers from advertised roles, and if you’re reluctant to network your way into conversations, try pitching a well-crafted CV and cover letter matching yourself point by point to the organisation’s needs.

				Research can take you a long way forward, even for junior roles. However you’ll get to a point when you have questions, which is the time to find someone who you know well and who is easy to talk to.

				The fact that you don’t want to network doesn’t mean that it won’t work. When you get a job offer you will probably say, like most people, ‘I wish I’d started talking to people earlier’. Don’t make it a major roadblock. Talk to people you know really well, tell them what you’re trying to achieve and ask for their advice about who to talk to. Then ask for an introduction so you never have to approach people cold. Tap into friends, relatives, former work colleagues - anyone you have enough confidence to approach. Start with easy, low-stress conversations.

				In summary, only avoid activities because they just don’t match your needs, not because you want to avoid them. Use every method within your confidence range - anything which either improves your message or shortens your job hunt.

				Having real, face-to-face conversations makes a difference, so even if you only do it in your way, and only do a little, just do it.





	OceanofPDF.com





