OceanofPDF.com





OceanofPDF.com





			Copyright © 2022 Sharlyn Lauby. All rights reserved.

			This publication is designed to provide accurate and authoritative information regarding the subject matter covered. It is sold with the understanding that neither the publisher nor the author is engaged in rendering legal or other professional service. If legal advice or other expert assistance is required, the services of a competent, licensed professional should be sought. The federal and state laws discussed in this book are subject to frequent revision and interpretation by amendments or judicial revisions that may significantly affect employer or employee rights and obligations. Readers are encouraged to seek legal counsel regarding specific policies and practices in their organizations.

			This book is published by the Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM). The interpretations, conclusions, and recommendations in this book are those of the author and do not necessarily represent those of the publisher.

			This publication may not be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted in whole or in part, in any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording, or otherwise, without the prior written permission of the publisher, or authorization through payment of the appropriate per-copy fee to the Copyright Clearance Center Inc., 222 Rosewood Drive, Danvers, MA 01923, 978-750-8600, fax 978-646-8600, or on the web at www.copyright.com. Requests to the publisher for permission should be addressed to SHRM Book Permissions, 1800 Duke Street, Alexandria, VA 22314, or online at http://www.shrm.org/about-shrm/pages/copyright--permissions.aspx.

			SHRM books and products are available on most online bookstores and through the SHRMStore at www.shrmstore.org.

			SHRM creates better workplaces where employers and employees thrive together. As the voice of all things work, workers and the workplace, SHRM is the foremost expert, convener, and thought leader on issues impacting today’s evolving workplaces. With 300,000+ HR and business executive members in 165 countries, SHRM impacts the lives of more than 115 million workers and families globally. Learn more at SHRM.org and on Twitter @SHRM.

			Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data

			Names: Lauby, Sharlyn, author.

			Title: The SHRM essential guide to talent management : a handbook for hr professionals, managers, businesses, and organizations / Sharlyn Lauby, SHRM-SCP.

			Description: Alexandria, VA : Society for Human Resource Management, [2022]| Includes bibliographical references.

			Identifiers: LCCN 2022007176 (print) | LCCN 2022007177 (ebook) | ISBN 9781586445287 (paperback) | ISBN 9781586445294 (pdf) | ISBN 9781586445300 (epub) | ISBN 9781586445317 (mobi)

			Subjects: LCSH: Personnel management. | Employee retention.

			Classification: LCC HF5549 .L28588 2022 (print) | LCC HF5549 (ebook) | DDC 352.6--dc23/eng/20220324

			LC record available at https://lccn.loc.gov/2022007176

			LC ebook record available at https://lccn.loc.gov/2022007177

			Published in the United States of America

			FIRST EDITION

			PB Publishing 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 	61.12303





OceanofPDF.com





Contents




		 			Acknowledgments

			Introduction: Talent Management Defined

			Talent Management Defined

			How to Use This Guide

			Chapter 1

			Strategic and Workforce Planning

			Why Is Planning Important?

			Strategic Planning

			Workforce Planning

			Ten Planning Terms You Should Know

			Planning Models, Theories, and Philosophies

			Legal Considerations in Strategic and Workforce Planning

			The Role of Technology in Strategic and Workforce Planning

			Common Practices in Strategic and Workforce Planning

			Measuring and Evaluating Strategic and Workforce Planning

			Additional Resources

			“Fail to Plan. Plan to Fail”

			Chapter 2

			Talent Acquisition

			Why Is Talent Acquisition Important?

			Talent Acquisition: The Planning Part

			Talent Acquisition: The Hiring Part

			Ten Talent-Acquisition Terms You Should Know

			Talent-Acquisition Models, Theories, and Philosophies

			Legal Considerations in Talent Acquisition

			The Role of Technology in Talent Acquisition

			Common Practices in Talent Acquisition

			Measuring and Evaluating Talent Acquisition

			Additional Talent-Acquisition Resources

			You Don’t Want to Be the Reason That Planes Don’t Fly

			Chapter 3

			Onboarding and Employee Engagement

			Why Are Onboarding and Employee Engagement Important?

			The Three Phases of Onboarding

			Ten Onboarding and Employee-Engagement Terms You Should Know

			Onboarding and Employee-Engagement Models, Theories, and Philosophies

			Legal Considerations in Onboarding and Employee Engagement

			The Role of Technology in Onboarding and Employee Engagement

			Common Practices in Onboarding and Employee Engagement

			Measuring and Evaluating Onboarding and Employee Engagement

			Additional Onboarding and Employee-Engagement Resources

			Chapter 4

			Performance Management

			Why is Performance Management Important?

			Ten Performance-Management Terms You Should Know

			Performance Management: The Supporting Philosophies, Models, and Theories

			Performance Coaching and Constructive Discipline

			Legal Considerations in Performance Management

			Performance-Management Technology

			Common Practices in Performance Management

			Additional Performance-Management Resources

			Performance Management Matters to Everyone

			Chapter 5

			Employee Value Proposition

			Why Is the Employee Value Proposition Important?

			An Interview with Dave Almeda

			Ten Employee Value Proposition Terms You Should Know

			Basic Philosophies, Models, and Theories Supporting Employee Value Proposition

			Legal Considerations for Your Employee Value Proposition

			Technology and the Employee Value Proposition

			Common Practices with the Employee Value Proposition

			Measuring the Employee Value Proposition

			Additional Resources on Employee Value Proposition

			Organizations Need to Show Employees “More Than the Money”

			Chapter 6

			Learning and Development

			Why Is Learning and Development Important?

			Ten Learning and Development Terms You Should Know

			Learning and Development: Philosophies, Models, and Theories

			Legal Considerations in Learning and Development

			Learning, Development, and Technology

			Common Practices in Learning and Development

			Measuring and Evaluating Our Learning and Development Efforts

			Additional Learning and Development Resources

			Learning Is about More Than Putting in the Time

			Chapter 7

			Succession Planning, Upskilling, and Reskilling

			Why Are Succession Planning, Upskilling, and Reskilling Important?

			Career Planning

			Ten Succession Planning, Upskilling, and Reskilling Terms You Should Know

			Philosophies, Models, and Theories That Support Succession Planning, Upskilling, and Reskilling

			Legal Considerations in Succession Planning, Upskilling, and Reskilling

			Technology and Succession Planning, Upskilling, and Reskilling

			Common Practices in Succession Planning, Upskilling, and Reskilling

			Measuring and Evaluating the Effectiveness of Your Succession Planning, Upskilling, and Reskilling Programs

			Additional Resources on Succession Planning, Upskilling, and Reskilling

			Skills Development Works When It’s a Part of Company Culture

			Chapter 8

			Internal and External Transitions

			Why Are Employee Transitions Important?

			Ten Employee Transition Terms You Should Know

			Common Philosophies, Models, and Theories That Support Employee Transitions

			Legal Considerations with Employee Transitions

			Technology and Employee Transitions

			Best Practices in Employee Transitions

			Measuring the Effectiveness of Employee Transitions

			Additional Resources Related to Employee Transitions

			Transitioning Employees Reflect Your Organization

			Conclusion

			Appendix: Creating a Talent-Management Library

			Glossary

			References and Resources

			Index

			About the Author

			About SHRM Books





OceanofPDF.com





Acknowledgments


			Writing a book is a group activity. I want to thank the wonderful people who helped me make this book happen.

			First, a huge thanks to my publisher, Matthew Davis, and the entire SHRM team for their support in giving me this opportunity. I also want to thank Montrese Hamilton for keeping the entire project on track. My eternal thanks to Olivia Turner and Juanita Covert for making sure my words are clear and my grammar and punctuation are correct. And I can’t forget Robert Kern for his design work and Grace Baker for indexing all the content.

			It’s been a delight working with everyone. I learn something new with every book, and this one is no exception.

			Another huge thanks to my clients and colleagues who contributed their expertise. You didn’t have to answer my request, but I’m very happy you did. I’m very fortunate to have such giving professionals in my network. I know readers will find your insights valuable.

			Last but certainly not least, all my love and admiration to my husband, Keith. Writing a book becomes a “family activity” in the Lauby household, and he’s a great sport about it. I owe him one very long vacation.

			Thank you all and enjoy the read. Cheers!

			—Sharlyn Lauby





OceanofPDF.com





Introduction: Talent Management Defined


			Everyone needs a go-to resource guide for work. Resource guides provide answers and information, similar to a dictionary or an atlas. They can help provide clarity and definition. Resource guides can be used by anyone at any stage of their career.

			During my career, I’ve used resource guides to help sell ideas, maintain consistency, and get unstuck. For example, a resource guide helped me use the cost-per-hire metric as a justification in selling senior management on changing the amount of an employee referral bonus. It served as a checklist of all the things to remember when I was looking for low-cost and no-cost perks to discuss during an employee focus group. And when I was stuck trying to design a training program, it offered the definition of an A-B-C-D objective to help me refocus.

			Whether you’re an HR professional or people manager, this book is designed to be your go-to desk resource guide that will offer practical answers and solutions to help you with your talent management challenges. It doesn’t matter the years of experience you have or if you have any experience at all. Everyone can use a resource guide. It doesn’t matter what industry you’re in, nonprofit or for profit, or the size of your organization. This resource guide is about helping professionals find results.





Talent Management Defined


			Talent management is the most evergreen of human resources topics. According to the Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM), talent management strategies are designed to attract, develop, retain, and use employees with the necessary skills and aptitude to meet current and future business needs. I’ve never heard a CEO say that finding and keeping the best talent wasn’t a business imperative. In fact, it’s absolutely necessary for organizations to achieve their strategic goals.

			But the discussion about talent management moves quickly. Yes, we need to stay ahead of the trends. But we also need to remember the foundation that those trends are based on, and that’s why this resource has been published.





How to Use This Guide


			Using the SHRM definition of talent management, the eight primary components of talent management are as follows:

			 				Planning (Strategic and Workforce). It all starts with planning. Talent management goals must align with organizational goals. And they must be consistent with other talent management strategies like performance management and learning. The organization’s strategic plan will be a key driver in creating its workforce plan.

				Talent Acquisition. Organizations will use their workforce plan to determine how many employees to hire and what skills they need. Regardless of the unemployment rate, organizations always want to hire the best talent. In this section, we’ll talk about how organizations can stay competitive in talent acquisition.

				Onboarding and Employee Engagement. No organization wants to spend a lot of resources hiring someone only to have them resign early in their career. New hires need the training and tools to be successful. That starts on day one with onboarding. Employees who receive a good start are more engaged and productive.

				Performance Management. High performance is the focus of every organization. This section examines the tools that organizations can use to create and communicate performance standards. It will also cover common practices for goal setting and accountability.

				Employee Value Proposition (EVP). The EVP consists of those things that employees receive in exchange for their work. While it comprises compensation and benefits, it also includes topics like work-life balance and well-being. Organizations need to offer a balanced EVP to attract and retain talent.

				Learning and Development. Employees expect to learn at work. This allows them to do their job better and faster. Frankly, organizations want this as well. Whether you’re designing an employee learning opportunity or hiring an external consultant to assist, you’ll want to understand the learning design principles, including team building.

				Succession Planning, Upskilling, and Reskilling. Change is inevitable. The business world changes. Jobs change. Organizations will want to think beyond current job openings and start planning for the future. This section is focused on how to identify and design employee development opportunities, including apprenticeships and internships.

				Transitions (Internal and External). Organizations need to have a realistic approach to employee transitions whether it’s a transfer from one department to another or departure from the organization. Good transitions benefit both the individual and the organization.





			Figure I.1 The Eight Primary Components of Talent Management

			In each of the sections that correspond to these sections, the guide will cover the following:

			 				Why the section is important to the organization, operational departments, and employees. It is possible that the reason the organization is struggling in an area is because they don’t see the connection between the topic and a healthy bottom line.

				The top terms or definitions you should know in this area. Being able to sell ideas means being able to speak the language.

				Common philosophies, models, and theories that support the section. This includes both classic and modern information that is often thought of as a “given” for the topic.

				Any legal considerations. Full disclosure: this guide isn’t going to be a deep dive into employment law. The goal here is to discuss the concepts that contribute to legislation and the law. If you’re looking for a dedicated guide to employment law, check out The SHRM Essential Guide to Employment Law by Charles H. Fleisher, Esq. It’s a great read.

				The role of technology. Because technology isn’t going away.

				Common practices and case studies. In this section, you’ll also see interviews with HR and business thought leaders, job aids, checklists, and worksheets that you can immediately use or share with others.

				Metrics to evaluate the effectiveness of your efforts.

				Additional resources like books and blogs for further review.



			While it’s certainly within your prerogative to read this guide from cover to cover (maybe poolside with an umbrella drink), it’s been designed to be consumed by section. Need to spend some time focused on upskilling and reskilling? Pull the guide off the shelf and read that section. You might find that there are sections you refer to far more than others, and that’s okay.

			There’s one last thing that I feel I need to address in this introduction: some people might be skimming through the introduction in a bookstore and saying to themselves, “Why do I need this guide? Can’t I get all this information on the internet?” And the answer is, “Yes, you can.” But with this guide, we’ve done the heavy lifting for you. This guide puts everything in one place. Your time is valuable. Sometimes we just need an answer and don’t have time to search the internet for it.

			Don’t get me wrong. Personally, I love the internet. It’s a valuable resource. But I also know there are days when I can easily start searching for best practices when conducting stay interviews and end up watching cute lemur videos. This resource guide helps me manage my time, so I can watch cute lemur videos later. I’m sure you have other things you’d like to spend your time on as well.

			Resource guides are what you make them. This one has been designed to help you create the best workplace possible. Thanks for joining me on this journey. Let’s get started.



						 						 							There are times when the best way to learn something is by reading and other times when listening makes more sense. SHRM and I wanted to give you options so we created a curated collection of videos, webinars, and podcasts on a “super-secret resource page” you can access with this QR code. We hope you’ll check it out and take advantage of these additional resources.





OceanofPDF.com





Chapter 1


			Strategic and Workforce Planning


			 				Why Is Planning Important?

				Strategic Planning

				Workforce Planning

				Ten Planning Terms You Should Know

				Planning Models, Theories, and Philosophies

				Legal Considerations in Strategic and Workforce Planning

				The Role of Technology in Strategic and Workforce Planning

				Common Practices in Strategic and Workforce Planning

				Measuring and Evaluating Strategic and Workforce Planning

				Additional Resources

				“Fail to Plan. Plan to Fail”





Why Is Planning Important?


			Every organization has a goal it’s trying to achieve. It could be as straightforward as “make lots of money” or as broad as “The mission of The Walt Disney Company is to entertain, inform and inspire people around the globe through the power of unparalleled storytelling, reflecting the iconic brands, creative minds and innovative technologies that make ours the world’s premier entertainment company.” Regardless, every organization has a goal, and to achieve the organization’s goal requires planning.

			In this chapter, we’re going to talk about planning from two angles: The first is what the organization is going to do (i.e., strategic planning). The second is who is going to carry out the strategic plan (i.e., workforce planning). These plans work together to help the organization achieve its goals.





Strategic Planning


			The purpose of strategic planning is to establish goals and develop a plan to achieve those goals. Strategic planning can happen on an organizational or department level. You might have even created a strategic plan for yourself without calling it that. By the nature of the word “strategic,” we’re not talking about day-to-day tasks and responsibilities. A plan to run the day-to-day tasks of the organization is often referred to as an operations plan (and we’ll save developing operational plans for another book). The process of strategic planning has four phases:

			 				Formulation is the first phase in the process. This is when the organization gathers information and data about their internal and external environment. They will use this information to establish goals.

				Development is the second phase when the organization develops a plan to achieve the goals that they established during the formulation phase. The organization will take into consideration priorities, budget, and the workforce. More on that last point later.

				Implementation is the third and most visible phase. During this phase, the organization will be communicating their plan and striving to accomplish some of the activities that were created in the development phase.

				Evaluation is the fourth phase of the process. It might be tempting to say last phase, but that’s not completely accurate. During this phase, the organization will evaluate their progress and possibly look to make adjustments. Strategic planning is a continuous process.





			Figure 1.1 The Four Phases of Strategic Planning

			Of course, the result of a strategic planning activity is the strategic plan. The strategic plan guides the development of the operational plan as well as the activity plans for each department. For example, an organization might have in their strategic plan activities related to growth and expansion. Maybe a US-based organization plans to expand operations globally. This strategy will have an impact on all departments, including human resources. And this is why strategic planning is so important. The organization’s strategic plan and goals will impact the entire organization.

			In fact, HR departments are often very impacted by an organization’s strategic plan. Not to take anything away from marketing, finance, and operations, but someone must make the strategic plan a reality . . . and that takes people. Strategic plans impact each function of HR—talent acquisition, employee relations, compensation and benefits, learning and development, and so on. HR departments must think about their role in planning from both a vertical and horizontal perspective, meaning HR departments must have goals that align with organizational strategy and align with the other functions of HR.

			Remember a few paragraphs ago when I mentioned the Development phase of strategic planning and the workforce? Let’s expand on that.

			Traditionally, the individuals who contribute to the organization’s strategic plan are competent in strategic thinking. There’s a difference between creating strategy and being a strategic thinker. One is a process to understand (strategic planning), and the other is a competency to be developed (strategic thinking). A few years ago, I learned of a white paper written by Jeanne Liedtka outlining the five elements of strategic thinking:

			 				Having a systems perspective (i.e., having the ability to see the entire picture), in this case, being able to understand the entire organization—and its relationship with the world.

				Being intent focused, which is being able to create a focus for employees to concentrate on the organization’s goals.

				Using intelligent opportunism to remind ourselves of the conversations happening about the opportunity economy and being open to new ideas that are good for business.

				Thinking in time, which refers to the view of referencing the past to create the future and using the proper analogies to create linkages and anticipate trends.

				Being hypothesis driven. Yes, the classic scientific theory rears its head. Being able to reason and test a hypothesis is key to effective strategic thinking.



			HR professionals need to understand both the process and the competency. Not only as a part of the strategic planning team but as someone involved in hiring managers and leaders who will need to understand both. This is where workforce planning enters the equation.



			Figure 1.2 The Strategic Planning Cascade





Workforce Planning


			Workforce planning is the process of aligning the labor needs of the organization with the current workforce. It usually involves using business and talent intelligence tools to understand workforce trends and the existing labor market. Creating a workforce plan is very similar to a traditional gap analysis. It’s an exercise in moving from your current state to a future state.



			Figure 1.3 The Workforce Planning Process

			Step One. Create a clear sense of your organization’s mission, vision, and values (M-V-V). It’s important to note that when we’re talking about M-V-V, we are referring to the real deal, not some marketing copy that an agency thought would resonate with customers or candidates. People quickly see through that when they interact with the organization.

			Step Two. Identify knowledge, skills, and abilities (KSAs). Using this, determine the organization’s staffing needs in terms of KSAs. This is also where I have a confession to make: sometimes, I use these three terms interchangeably. Truth is, I shouldn’t. Knowledge, skills, and abilities are three different things. And it’s important to know the difference—even though the difference can be subtle. It will matter when putting a workforce plan together. FYI: a detailed explanation about each term can be found in Chapter 4 (Performance Management). Once the current KSAs have been identified, prioritize the findings. It doesn’t need to be elaborate and could be as simple as a table.

			Table 1.1 Identify Workforce KSAs

			 				 					 					 					 					 				 				 					 						 							Priority

						 						 							Critical requirements

						 						 							KSAs

						 						 							Skill level





				 			 			Step Three. Conduct an environmental scan. This is a systemic process that researches and interprets data to identify potential opportunities and risks. It’s possible that you already have some relevant data from the strategic planning process. The results of an environmental scan will give you insights about where you could have challenges in fulfilling your recruiting strategy and where there might be some shifts in future skills. (We’ll talk more about environmental scans later in this chapter.)

			Step Four. Analyze your current staff. This is where the process could start to get confusing because we’re talking about an analysis (staffing) within an analysis (workforce). A staffing analysis is a systemic way of determining the organization’s staffing needs and is basically a piece of your workforce plan (which is on some level, an analysis).

			To conduct a staffing analysis, you use the same skills as workforce planning: data collection and critical evaluation. The difference is what data you’re collecting and evaluating. A lot of the information we’ve been collecting so far with the workforce plan is external or not attached to a specific person. With a staffing analysis, the focus is internal and attached to specific employees. Many of today’s technology solutions can do this step for you. But if that is not something you have access to, go “old school” and create an Excel spreadsheet.

			Table 1.2 Document Your Staffing Analysis

			 				 					 					 					 				 				 					 						 							Employee

						 						 							KSAs

						 						 							Skill level





				 			 			Step Five. Identify the gap. At this point, you can see where the organization currently stands in terms of their mission, goals, and priority of knowledge and skills. You also know the skills of your current workforce. There’s also a third element of what’s taking place in your industry, competitive set, and community—which cannot be ignored. The organization needs to consider whether they want to take those external factors into account or believe they do not have a significant impact on their plans.

			Step Six. Create a plan to address the gap. At this point, I’ve mentioned the term gap analysis a few times already in this chapter. I go into detail about conducting a gap analysis in Chapter 6 (Learning and Development). Once the gap analysis is completed, I like using specific, measurable, actionable, responsible, and time-bound (SMART) plans to document action steps. Organizations can use SMART plans to outline their strategic plan, operational plans, and yes, their workforce plans. You’ll see some examples later in this chapter.

			If strategic planning is the organization’s road map to success, workforce planning is about finding the talent who are going to complete that roadmap. When we’re talking about talent management, it all starts with planning. That’s why we need to understand the process, so we can become a part of it.





Ten Planning Terms You Should Know


			Whenever I’m stuck on an issue, I find that definitions often help me to get unstuck. Here are the definitions for a few terms that I’ve mentioned so far and some that you might see in articles about strategy. It’s also possible that your senior management team might mention them in a strategy conversation. I tried listing them in the order you might talk about them or be exposed to them during the strategic planning process.

			Mission, Vision, Values

			The organization’s vision is their long-term goal. Let’s use LinkedIn as an example. Their vision is to “create economic opportunity for every member of the global workforce.” The mission is how the organization goes about accomplishing their vision. LinkedIn’s mission is to “connect the world’s professionals to make them more productive and successful.” Values are the key behaviors that guide organizational decision making. LinkedIn’s values are “Members first. Relationships matter. Be open, honest, and constructive.”

			Organizational Culture

			Among successful organizations, culture is a common denominator. According to the SHRM toolkit “Understanding and Developing Organizational Culture,” an organization’s culture defines the proper way to behave within the organization. It consists of shared beliefs and values communicated and reinforced by leadership.

			Management

			Leadership and management are two different things. Management is often defined as the activities of planning, organizing, directing, and controlling. Managers plan the work, organize resources, direct employees, and control the results.

			Leadership

			The definition of leadership is the ability to influence. Managers (see prior definition) should be leaders, but not all leaders are managers. Leaders exist at every level of the organization—and that’s a good thing.

			Global Mindset

			A global mindset is the ability to recognize and adjust to cultural signals so that a person’s effectiveness isn’t compromised when dealing with others from a different background, according to the Global Mindset Index Study created by the cultural training firm RW3. Companies with employees who have a global mindset typically perform better because of that global perspective.

			Globalization

			With the expansion of globalization, more organizations are developing talent strategies that factor in the movement of work to other countries. Outsourcing is a practice where portions of the work are transferred to an outside supplier (versus completing internally). Offshoring relocates processes or production to another country. Onshoring (or home shoring) relocates a business practice to a lower-cost location inside the same country as the organization.

			Environmental Scan

			This is a review of external data and information that could potentially impact the business. Traditional areas of review include economics, social and demographic factors, legal and governmental actions, technology, and competition.

			Key Performance Indicators

			These are quantifiable measurements of performance, according to Investopedia. They usually focus on finances, customers, and process efficiency. Common organizational key performance indicators (KPIs) include revenue and profit, customer acquisition costs, customer lifetime value, and product defect ratios.

			Corporate Social Responsibility

			In this business model, organizations include social and environmental concerns in their operations. Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) allows the organization to achieve a balance of economic, environmental, and social results (sometimes it’s referred to as the “triple bottom line” or TBL).

			Project Management

			The Project Management Institute (PMI) defines project management as a temporary endeavor to create a unique product, service, or result. Temporary means that the project has a defined beginning and end with limited resources. Unique means that the project isn’t a routine or everyday activity. The goal of project management is to deliver the intended result on time and within budget.





Planning Models, Theories, and Philosophies


			Let’s add to the definitions some of the common models, theories, and philosophies that could be associated with strategic and workforce planning. What’s great about sharing these models in this chapter is that you might find them helpful in future chapters (and I’ll try to point that out). The other terrific thing about these models is that when we teach employees how to use them, they become regular tools to help employees get better at their work.

			Perlmutter Orientations (a.k.a. The EPRG Framework)

			Howard V. Perlmutter was an expert on globalization and internationalization. He became famous for the development of the EPRG Model, which is an acronym for ethnocentrism, polycentrism, regiocentrism, and geocentrism. This model helps organizations define their internal structure, which subsequently has an impact on how organizations make decisions, allocate resources, and build relationships.

			Ethnocentrism means to apply one’s own culture as a frame of reference to judge other cultures. It should be noted that ethnocentrism can be used in a negative context, such as discrimination, stereotyping, or racism. Ethnocentrism can be found in a global organization where the headquarters views its country as superior to its other locations. Because organizations place their power in headquarters, ethnocentric organizations can find themselves struggling due to a lack of flexibility and responsiveness. On the positive side, ethnocentric organizations can benefit from the simpleness of their organization structure.

			Polycentrism acknowledges the existence of many different centers or cultures. In a global setting, polycentric businesses recognize that the local organization is best equipped to deal with the local market and allow the local entity to do so. Organizations with a polycentric approach can leverage their standing in the local market and achieve better sales because of their local focus. However, polycentrism can also lead to a duplication of efforts and a waste of company resources because every local entity is “doing their own thing.”

			Regiocentrism might be considered a version of polycentrism. Instead of allowing each local entity to operate independently, regions with common characteristics are formed. For example, The Coca-Cola Company has grouped together India, Pakistan, and Bangladesh due to their cultural similarities and uses a similar marketing strategy in these countries. When the regions are grouped well, the organization can benefit from the localized strategy while at the same time reducing any duplication of effort or potential waste.

			Geocentrism takes place when an organization believes that they can utilize one type of strategy across the globe, regardless of cultural differences. This approach looks to unite all company locations. Geocentric organizations can use this approach to build stronger brand presence and have greater resource management. It does involve the organization making greater investments into communication, learning, decision-making, and process management.

			PESTLE Analysis

			PESTLE is an acronym for political, economic, social, technological, legal, and environmental. It’s a type of environmental scan that allows organizations to gather the data and information they might need for decision-making in terms of their strategic as well as workforce plans. Typically, a PESTLE analysis is focused on external data and information:

			 				Political factors are those related to how government plays a role in the economy.

				Economic factors are those statistics related to how the economy is doing now and where trends are leading in the future.

				Social factors relate to demographics in terms of both consumers and employees. It might include information about age, educational trends, geographic trends, spending habits, and so forth.

				Technology factors are focused on the rate of technological change and adoption. This could include hardware, software, and internet access.

				Legal factors are the laws and legislation that currently regulate the organization as well as what changes might take place in the short and long term.

				Environmental factors are focused on the ecology that might impact the business such as weather, climate, sustainability, and so forth.



			Organizations might conduct a PESTLE analysis as part of their annual strategy, budgeting, and goal-setting process. They could also conduct a mini analysis at regular intervals to confirm the assumptions that they used to create their strategy.



			Figure 1.4 PESTLE Analysis

			SWOT Analysis

			SWOT is an acronym for strengths, weaknesses, opportunities, and threats. A SWOT analysis can be completed at an organizational, departmental, or individual level to identify strengths, weaknesses, opportunities, and threats for planning purposes. Whereas a PESTLE analysis focuses on external data, a SWOT analysis uses both internal and external information.

			Table 1.3 SWOT Analysis Template

			 				 					 					 					 				 				 					 						 							SWOT analysis

						 						 							Positive/Advantage

						 						 							Negative/Disadvantage



				 				 					 						 							Internal

						 						 							STRENGTHS

						 						 							WEAKNESSES



					 						 							External

						 						 							OPPORTUNITIES

						 						 							THREATS



				 			 			A SWOT analysis can be a great tool for helping organizations identify both internal and external strengths, weaknesses, opportunities, and threats. The activity of conducting a SWOT analysis can allow many individuals to participate, therefore creating a greater sense of engagement and buy-in.

			The downside is that a SWOT analysis doesn’t have built-in collaboration or prioritization features. Therefore, there may be a lot of input that needs to be evaluated. One participant could view a certain quality as a strength while another participant views it as a weakness. An example might be a participant who views the organization’s process for evaluating data and information as a strength. They believe it helps the organization make good decisions. Another participant might see it as a weakness because the organization takes too long to review the data, almost to the point of “analysis paralysis.” The organization misses out because they’re too slow. Both could be right, but the organization will need to evaluate the feedback. Also, there could be instances where opportunities could exist, but they aren’t high priorities. That will all needs to be sorted out.

			Organizations will have to be conscious of their culture when conducting a SWOT analysis. Some participants are very capable of identifying both positive and negative attributes whereas others might only be able to be more focused on either positive or negative aspects. SWOT analyses work when the matrix isn’t all positive or negative or all internal or external.

			As a side note, if an organization finds itself spending too much time on the negative side, it can be helpful to use a technique called “appreciative inquiry” to get the group back on track. Appreciative inquiry is a process for facilitating positive change. At its simplest level, it asks the question, “What would the best outcome look like?” and then challenges the group to put a plan in place to get from where they are to their “best” outcome. Think of it as a gap analysis focused on achieving a positive result. And if you’re looking for a template for conducting a gap analysis, there’s one in Chapter 6 (Learning and Development).

			Force-Field Analysis

			At some point in the strategic or workforce planning process, the organization will want to make decisions. It would be great to say that all decisions are easy and that everyone immediately agrees on the right action to take. But realistically, that doesn’t happen. Or it doesn’t happen a lot.

			Instead, the organization is stuck. Perhaps everyone knows the cause but still can’t move into action. Perhaps someone believes that the cause of the problem is not of any great importance. Everyone knows that something needs to be done but the organization just can’t seem to get moving. In those cases, you may find a force-field analysis will give you the kind of understanding to the problem that you need to begin turning talk into action.

			Developed by Kurt Lewin, one of the founders of applied behavior science, a force-field analysis allows you to look at those forces in the problem that are helping you move toward your target and those forces that are blocking you from doing it. As simple as a force-field analysis may at first appear, the insights to be gained by such an analysis are often striking.

			The basic idea behind a force-field analysis is that any situation can be described as made up of a series of forces, some pushing for change, some resisting change. A force-field analysis is an analysis of those forces.



			Figure 1.5 Force-Field Analysis Template

			Step One. Identify your goal. If your problem has a single goal, of course, this will be your focus. If your problem has multiple goals, choose the one that suggests it is either most important or is, perhaps, an enabling goal.

			Step Two. List driving forces. List those forces that are moving you toward the accomplishment of your goal. These may be external forces, like company policy, or internal or psychological forces like motivation, commitment, or skills. Indicate your estimation of the strength of each driving force by the length of the arrow using the scale provided on the form: the longer the arrow, the stronger the force.

			Step Three. List restraining forces. These are the forces that are preventing you from moving toward your goal. Again, these may be either external or internal forces; and, again, the length of each arrow represents your estimated strength of that force.

			Step Four. Estimate the relative strength of driving and restraining forces. Add the weight you have given to the driving forces and compare that strength to the sum of the weight of the restraining forces, knowing that this is a very rough estimate.

			Evaluating Force-Field Results

			Once you have completed a force-field analysis, one of three possible conditions will result:

			 				The driving forces will outweigh the restraining forces.

				The restraining forces will outweigh the driving forces.

				The two sets of forces will be roughly equal.

				These three conditions suggest three different strategies in moving toward a solution.



			If the driving forces clearly outweigh the restraining forces (the first case), simply keep on doing what you are doing. You are almost certainly going to be successful in solving your problem.

			If the restraining forces heavily outweigh the driving forces (the second case), you should either be very patient or reconsider your target. With all those restraining forces against you, it may be unrealistic to think that you can solve the problem, at least as you have defined it so far. You may want to “go back to the beginning” and articulate a more realistic goal.

			However, in many situations, conducting a force-field analysis will result in the driving and restraining forces being about equal (the third case). Since the organization was stuck, that’s probably why you undertook the force-field analysis in the first place. If this is the case, it might be tempting to push harder on the driving forces. This “trying harder” approach may work from time to time, but the opposite could also take place. The harder you push on the driving forces, the harder the restraining forces seem to push back all by themselves. You will find yourself putting more and more energy into your field of forces but find that you are making little or no progress—or even sliding backwards. The major insight of a force-field analysis, which is brilliant in its simplicity, is that instead of trying harder, you identify those restraining forces that can be weakened or eliminated. As you weaken or eliminate various restraining forces, your driving forces will begin to outnumber your restraining forces and you should find yourself beginning to move toward your goal.

			SMART Matrix

			SMART is an acronym. Some will tell you that the acronym is specific, measurable, attainable, relevant, and timely. And that’s totally true. However, I’d like to share a slightly different version that I believe aligns with strategic and workforce planning a bit more. This version of SMART stands for specific, measurable, actionable, responsible, and time-bound:

			 				Specifically, what are we going to do? (Specific)

				How will we measure our success? (Measurable)

				What are the steps that will help us attain our goal? (Actionable)

				Who will be responsible for each step? (Responsible)

				When will the task be completed? (Time-bound)



			This is one of the reasons that I love using the SMART acronym. We can tweak it ever so slightly to fit our needs.

			 				 					 					 				 				 					 						 							SMART Matrix



				 				 					 						 							Specific

							What’s the goal?

						 						 							Example: Create a work-from-home policy for employees.



					 						 							Measurable

							How will we recognize success?

						 						 							Example: 20% reduction in voluntary turnover with employees who had long commute times



					 						 							Actionable

							What are the individual steps we need to take?

						 						 							Example:

							 								Create policy. Review with legal.

								Implement policy with a pilot group for 6 months.

								Get feedback from pilot group, and revise program as necessary.

								Implement policy company-wide.





					 						 							Responsible

							Who will be responsible for each step?

						 						 							Example:

							 								HR and legal

								HR, department manager, pilot group participants

								HR, pilot group, department manager, legal

								Senior management, HR, department managers





					 						 							Time-bound

							When does it need to be done?

						 						 							Example:

							 								Q4, Current Year

								Q1, Next Year

								Q3, Next Year

								Q4, Next Year





				 			 			Figure 1.6 Sample SMART Matrix

			SMART was introduced by George T. Doran in the 1981 issue of Management Review. The original intent of SMART was to help people write better objectives (its original goal). Over time, SMART has become a project management accountability tool in addition to helping people write better objectives. Organizations (and individuals) can use SMART to set goals and monitor their progress toward those goals.

			In my experience, I’ve found the biggest benefit of a SMART matrix is that it allows me to steer conversations in the right direction. When we’re discussing an action item—whether it’s strategic or operational—we must address all the qualities: specific, measurable, actionable, responsible, and time-bound. It’s often easy for someone to say, “We need to do this or that.” Others may chime into the conversation and add, “In order to accomplish the goal, we must do these ten things.” Organizations get a lot of ideas, but they don’t always get individuals to step up and own those ideas. SMART allows the conversation to stay focused.

			Here’s an example: We’re in a meeting and someone says, “I have several team members who would like to work from home. They’re great employees and I don’t want to lose them. Let’s develop a work from home policy.” On the surface, this seems like a great idea. Everyone agrees.

			After the meeting, the facilities director comes to you and says, “I don’t have a problem with employees working from home, but it’s going to cost us thousands of dollars because we have a current lease agreement for our office space, and I don’t know if we can get out of it.” Later, the technology director comes to you and says, “I don’t have a problem with employees working from home, but we should consider providing all remote employees with training to make sure they know proper security and data protocols. There’s a cost but it will protect the company’s data. And it’s possible some employees might need better equipment.” You’re thinking, “Why didn’t these concerns come up during the meeting?”

			SMART helps us keep the discussion on track and get a resolution. Now when the idea of working from home gets brought up, someone can say to the facilities director, “It sounds like a good idea. What would be involved from your perspective?” They get the chance to answer. Same goes for the technology director. You can ask them, “Are there any new technologies or trends we need to consider?” This results in the entire group being better informed and making good decisions. It also saves a lot of time after the meeting, with conversations that should happen during the meeting.

			In addition, a SMART matrix can be particularly valuable in the areas of measurement, responsibility, and timeliness. I used to work with someone whose entire goal during a meeting was to not be assigned anything. It was so obvious that his coworkers would joke about it—during the meeting! With the SMART acronym, we were able to direct conversations toward key discussions like “We have a great idea here . . . now who’s going to take ownership for getting it done?” and “Thanks, Jose, for leading this task, when can we expect it to be completed?”

			Figure 1.6 shows an example of what a SMART matrix might look like using the work-from-home example.

			Creating a policy will take time and cost the organization money, which is why a SMART matrix can help keep the project on track. The measurement is that fewer employees will resign, saving the company in hiring and retraining expenses. Employees are willing to complete the action steps asked of them because the measurement (the sign of success) is attractive. No one really wants to see talented employees leave the organization.

			Keep in mind that the length and the detail of the matrix will vary based on the goal. Using a SMART matrix format to keep track of the meeting gives you the ability to make sure every action step has a person responsible for it. It ensures that the person who will be held accountable for completing the step has bought into their responsibility and is committed to getting it done. It also helps the group understand the allocation of resources.

			As you’re putting together the SMART matrix, you can see if one person is ending up with too many responsibilities and shift the workload. You can also see if someone who should have a role in the plan does. A participant knows their role and the impact of not meeting the goal up front. If you’re leading or managing a group, this is the essence of holding people accountable for performance. Set the level of expectation. Have that discussion in the meeting.

			Another way to create commitment to the SMART matrix is by giving the people responsible for each actionable step the opportunity to choose their deadline. An individual can’t say that some other person imposed an unrealistic deadline because they agreed to it. Participants also get to see how their action step impacts the other parts of the plan.

			One last benefit: SMART matrix formats provide participants with the ability to see and celebrate their success. When goals or action steps are created, everyone should understand what success looks like. This is the measurement component. Participants will use this information as motivation and validation that the plan was good.

			We’ve spent time so far in this chapter discussing how to plan. One of the things that organizations need to think about when they start planning is action. For example, over the past couple of years, many organizations have made declarations that they are opposed to systemic racism. But there have been numerous articles pointing out that sometimes what companies say and what they do might not always align. Organizations should regularly review their values and strategic plans to ask themselves, “Are we still staying true to our word?” And it starts with the CEO.

			I had the opportunity to interview Carmen Miller, CEO of McKinley Insurance Services, a full-service agency located in Fort Lauderdale, Florida, on my blog, HR Bartender, and wanted to share our conversation. I’ve had the pleasure of knowing her for over a decade. We first met as volunteers at the SHRM annual conference in Orlando and spent several years working together on the board for HR Florida, the SHRM state affiliate. I asked her if she would talk about her experiences as a CEO and taking action—specifically in the area of racial equality—in today’s business world. Thankfully, she said yes.

			Sharlyn Lauby: Carmen, what does Black Lives Matter (BLM) mean to you?

			Carmen Miller: To me, BLM means that people of color, and not just Black people, in this country are fed up with repeated injustices that are consciously and continually committed, with no valid repercussions. It is a stand to acknowledge there is a problem and then work toward a solution.

			Lauby: I’ve read a few articles recently that one of the ways White people can show allyship is by supporting Black-owned businesses. As a small business owner, I definitely want to support others and their values. But I’ll be honest, I’m concerned that if I’m vocal about my support that it will be misinterpreted as opportunistic or disingenuous. Are there some tips for showing this type of entrepreneurial support?

			Miller: It is a cautious and discretionary path for sure! You must walk the walk and talk the talk, all the time, not just now. It can be good as well as bad in affecting business, but realistically, imagine that you even must think that way.

			As a small business owner, never mind as a Black small business owner, I understand it can be difficult to find middle ground, even I struggle with it sometimes. If supporting the movement alienates some, to ignore it does the same. It is a catch-22 either way. It is in no way opportunistic unless it genuinely is.

			Some people do it and say it and you know who is genuine, they have always walked the walk, they have always supported people regardless of color and they do that because they trust that that person or company will do a good job. Many small business owners I know have tried taking the middle ground on this issue to ease all concerns—and many White owners really expect this to blow over in time—so they do just enough to get by. Those are the disingenuous ones. To stand tall at the risk of survival, now that’s real.

			Lauby: Over the years, many organizations have notoriously been apolitical. A few years ago, I attended a conference where CEOs started talking about how their employees were telling them that they needed to take a stand on issues they’ve shied away from in the past (like racial injustice). While many CEOs have been public with their feelings about BLM and racial injustice, I’m sure there are still CEOs who are apprehensive about making political and social statements. As the CEO of your own business, is there something you can suggest to other CEOs that might help them consider what issues they might want to support?

			Miller: CEOs should address issues that are directly affecting their staff and supporters. So, if there is no diversity in the workplace, then they know that’s the perfect place to start. It should be as personal to the CEO as it is to staff and supporters.

			I believe this is also an opportunity to look within yourself [and your company] and see if what the staff is saying is actually happening. Many times, it is. This is where the confusion starts. Many CEOs don’t know or don’t truly understand what the issues are, so the best place to start is within their own organization and the community in which you work and live. Know what affects them. Listen and act based on your own staff. Start there and then work to support the drive toward resolution.

			Lauby: If you could give people one piece of advice on how to support others and their values, what would it be?

			Miller: Put your own biases aside. We all have them, in some way, shape, or form. It may be uncomfortable initially, but you will find that regardless of color, we are all the same.

			Stop giving money and give time. Give of yourself and be with the people who you are supporting. Talk and listen to those who are trying to effect change and learn why they are trying to effect change. Try to understand whatever hits home in the communities you work, live, and serve in. Support and assistance are needed in a lot of areas. Choose to stand and be proud of your choice. It’s the only way.

			My takeaway from the conversation with Miller is that remaining true to our values starts with us. And organizational leaders should make sure that they are setting the example through their actions and those of their organizations, not just talking about it.

			Creating organizational equity is going to be a priority for a long time. Candidates will want to work for companies that demonstrate they have it. Employees will expect it in their job experience. It’s time for organizations to truly live their values. It’s not just about planning and talking about planning. It’s about doing.





Legal Considerations in Strategic and Workforce Planning


			I mentioned in the introduction that, in this book, we’re not going to do a deep dive into law. But there are some legal considerations that organizations will want to keep top of mind. When it comes to legal considerations, my intent is to share with you some legal concepts that could impact your organization. My recommendation is that you discuss those with your organization’s legal team to ensure understanding and compliance.

			Trade agreements are contractual arrangements between two or more countries in which each country agrees on certain obligations, according to the International Trade Administration. Trade agreements can (positively and negatively) impact organizations in terms of tariffs, intellectual property, investments, product standards, and procurement opportunities.

			International laws like the General Data Protection Regulation, also known as GDPR, can impact organizations regardless of where they are located. For example, the GDPR is one of those laws that could apply to organizations physically located outside of the European Union (EU) simply because they have a website that engages with individuals globally. SHRM published a great primer on the topic titled “8 Aspects of GDPR Compliance: A Brief Guide for HR Functions” that outlines the eight key areas of the regulation:

			 				Transparency refers to the notices that must be provided by the organization to any individual that they are collecting data from.

				Individual rights are enhanced under the regulation, giving individuals access and portability rights.

				Legality of processing means that any data collected must have an identified purpose.

				Data quality and minimization refers to the type of data collected and the amount of time that the data is stored by the company. A formalized policy must be in place for both.

				Data sharing agreements must be in place and monitored for compliance.

				Data transfers—both internal and external—should be mapped and available to individuals upon request.

				Data breaches must be quickly recognized and responded to using a formal procedure.

				Accountability means that all business functions, including HR, must proactively demonstrate compliance.



			The GDPR isn’t the only international law that organizations need to be aware of, but it’s important because of its far-reaching impact. As more organizations expand their business operations using technology, they need to be aware of the laws that govern their strategy.

			Global organizations, like the United Nations, have created agencies for the benefit of member countries. One such agency is the International Labour Organization (ILO). While the ILO doesn’t create laws, their mission is to set international labor standards, develop policies, and create programs to promote decent work for all persons. For example, the ILO has standards in the areas of child labor and youth employment, human trafficking, green jobs, and workplace safety. They develop and share their standards through research, events, and education. Organizations operating globally or considering a global growth strategy might have the ability to learn from their expertise.

			Another global organization is the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). It was founded in Boston in 1997 after calls for greater transparency following the Exxon Valdez oil spill. The focus of this nonprofit organization is on sustainability reporting. GRI offers education to organizations on how to report the results of their sustainability efforts and holds leadership training programs. Organizations can become members of GRI to take advantage of their offerings. Some of the recognizable US businesses that are members of GRI include Bloomberg, Cisco Systems, Dell, General Motors, Johnson & Johnson, Mastercard, Nasdaq, Nike, and UPS.





The Role of Technology in Strategic and Workforce Planning


			Technology plays a role in almost everything we do, and planning is no exception. One of the software technologies that organizations might consider to strategically manage their operations is Enterprise Resource Planning (an ERP).

			A few years ago, I had an opportunity to interview on HR Bartender Brian Sommer, a technology analyst and founder of the global advisory firm TechVentive Inc., about ERPs. He’s the author of the book Digital with Impact: Realizing Transformation Payoffs. Here are a few excerpts from that interview.

			Sharlyn Lauby: Brian, what is an ERP?

			Brian Sommer: Such a simple question—yet it is one that gets argued to death in courtrooms as there is no standard definition for it. ERP (Enterprise Resource Planning) is the successor to MRP (Materials Resource Planning), a term that described a combination of manufacturing, financial, and materials management software functionality.

			Today, ERP suites generally refer to some combination of accounting, human resources, supply chain, professional services, manufacturing, customer relationship management, or other modules. ERP is a marketing moniker, not a fixed set of application software. Anyone can pretty much call any group of two or more software apps an ERP suite.

			Lauby: How does an ERP compare to a Human Resource Management System (HRMS)?

			Sommer: ERP refers to a broader scope of applications and potential users. HRMS is entirely focused on one major functional or process area (human resources) while ERP may canvas a much larger part of the organization.

			Lauby: Is an ERP considered to be Software-as-a-Service (SaaS)? Does it operate in the cloud?

			Sommer: Many ERP products were created when everything ran on premises. Over time, some of these applications were enabled for other deployment methods such as a hosted services, private clouds, and single-tenant, hosted cloud solutions. A few years ago, there were very few multitenant cloud ERP solutions. Some of the early pioneers were Plex, Kenandy, and Rootstock. Now, even major on-premises ERP vendors have cloud solutions with many of them possessing some measure of multitenancy.

			The last paragraph covered cloud/noncloud deployment methods, but the other part of the issue is how the software is paid for/acquired. SaaS refers to the ability to pay for software on a periodic usage basis (e.g., monthly usage fees) versus a prepaid, one-time license. SaaS generally refers to software that is acquired on a subscription basis. Many cloud solutions are sold via a subscription basis. However, cloud vendors often offer more favorable subscription pricing to customers who are willing to lock in for a longer term (e.g., three-year subscription) and/or prepay a significant amount of the subscription upfront. Today, you can get

			 				On-premises products on a subscription basis or license;

				Cloud products (mostly) on a subscription basis with deeper discounts for longer-term subscriptions;

				On-premises solutions that can also operate in hosted, third-party, or vendor-provided clouds; and

				Private cloud versions of most on-premises solutions in a private cloud setting.



			And, if all that isn’t confusing enough, there are multi-instance solutions, too.

			Lauby: What are the benefits of having an ERP?

			Sommer: At its core, an ERP solution is really a suite of integrated applications. To get the most from an ERP suite, the applications should

			 				Share the same data model, tables, and files,

				Use the same development tools,

				Have a common user interface and user experience,

				Come pre-integrated from one application to another,

				Use a minimal number of unique reporting tools,

				Predominately use the same data storage medium (e.g., in-memory database, relational database management system [RDBMS], file access method), and

				Behave and look like the same development created all modules, with the same tools and architecture at roughly the same time.



			Unfortunately, many vendors create an ERP suite via a mix of self-developed applications and acquired products. If the acquired products were simply interfaced to the old ERP products, the solutions look ungainly and can behave quirkily. Some vendors even try to cloud-wash1 older on-premises ERP products by adding an acquired cloud application to the suite. As before, these Frankenstein2 creations might be hyped as a modernized ERP solution but they are only modern at its extremities.

			Historically, the benefits of an ERP solution originated from

			 				Significant reduction in non-value-added activities (e.g., manual work, workarounds, redundant data entry) and

				Improved efficiencies and productivity of the existing internal workforce.



			But these productivity and efficiency gains alone will no longer carry the day as repeated reinstalls and upgrades of older generation products only present small, marginal improvements to the organization. Most firms find the marginal or incremental benefits of implementing a new ERP to be substantially less than their incremental costs. This is why so many vendors (of mostly older or out-of-date ERP software) pitch their solutions in the context of having a low total cost of ownership (TCO) instead of [them] offering a great return on investment (ROI).

			More modern ERP solutions go quite a bit further from a benefits perspective though. They use powerful analytics to accomplish things like reduced workforce attrition, better targeting of prospective customers (and recruits), improved customer service, and so on. These are often accomplished via the incorporation (or modernization of ERP) of massive datasets, machine learning, smartphone telephony, geolocation services, and dozens of other modern capabilities.

			Lauby: Are there challenges to having an ERP?

			Sommer: ERP solutions, just because of their all-encompassing business scope, are things to carefully implement. Lots of policy, process, and configuration decisions must be made prior to implementation. And of course, there usually is a lot of data to convert during the implementation, too.

			The biggest challenge for many firms though is often economic. In a study we did a couple of years ago, we learned that the biggest single cost for on-premises ERP wasn’t the license, cumulative maintenance fees, hardware, systems software, or initial implementation costs. Nope—the biggest cost was the permanent IT head count to patch, maintain, and upgrade the software over its useful life.

			Multitenant ERP solutions are, for the most part, maintained by the vendor and this materially lessens the required IT personnel costs. When the vendor maintains the software, it also means that users don’t have to wait for other higher priority IT projects to get completed before their upgrades are processed.

			Some will speak of vendor lock-in as an issue with large ERP software suites. It’s a legitimate concern as the switching costs of moving from one large software suite to another can be quite high. Switching ERP suites also introduces other potential risks as well. In some cases, companies have been unable to process customer orders when their ERP solution failed. Great due diligence on software (and implementers) is always advisable with any software project, especially an ERP effort.

			But taken as a whole, these large suites often offer great advantages. There’s often a reduction in (sneakernet3) manual interfaces/integrations, fewer spreadsheets in use, fewer errors, faster access to critical business data, and so on.

			Lauby: Is an ERP secure?

			Sommer: As long as there are skilled malcontents (or disgruntled employees), IT systems will be vulnerable. In another research effort we did, we looked at a year’s worth of data breaches and found that most were concentrated in a couple of industries (higher education and financial services). Almost all of those involved private or in-house data centers. Less than 1 percent involved a cloud service.

			I’d recommend anyone considering new software to see if it meets the requirements/standards found in ISO27011, SAS 70 Part II/SSAE 16/ISAE 3402 or other criteria. This is especially true for companies employing an on-premises or private cloud solution. Does your firm’s data center meet these requirements? If not, get these fixed before implementing or consider one of the more secure multitenant cloud ERP products.

			Lauby: What do you see is the future of ERPs?

			Sommer: Old, static, unchanging ERP software is of limited value anymore. Those products were designed for the Industrial Age. However, most firms today must compete within the digital age. An ERP that wasn’t designed for big data, the Internet of Things (IoT), omnichannel retailing, and the like is out of sorts with the modern world and of no value.

			We’re already seeing a second wave of cloud ERP (and HR) software emerging. These solutions are built on in-memory database technology. They can supplement their data prowess with Hadoop datasets, image files, nonrelational information, weather data, social sentiment data, and so on. These second-generation ERP tools were designed first and foremost for the digital age firm—a firm that collects, dissects, and acts on the heaping mounds of data thrown off by consumers, suppliers, equipment, and the like every second. These solutions exist to serve the modern firm—not your grandfather’s factory.

			One of the concepts that Sommer mentions in his last answer is worth noting. The Internet of Things (IoT) is a computing concept where everyday physical objects are connected to the internet and are able to identify themselves to other devices. Current examples of IoT include smart thermostats, lighting that can be controlled by a phone app, and fitness trackers that monitor our activity.

			IoT isn’t simply about the products that a company provides. From a business strategy standpoint, it’s about connections and partnerships. Relevant examples are the companies that partner with phone manufacturers to offer apps or with technology companies and TV manufacturers. While we don’t always refer to it as IoT, it is all around us and growing all the time. Organizations might be considering IoT as part of their growth strategy, which means as HR professionals, we might need to think about new recruiting and training strategies as if we’re operating in an IoT organization. Years ago, I found a great article that talked about the three different types of talent in the IoT market:

			 				Enablers who develop the technology,

				Engagers who deliver services to customers, and

				Enhancers who provide add-on or unique services on top of what engagers provide.



			HR professionals might want to think about enablers, engagers, and enhancers when developing their workforce plan. It could make sense to think about jobs in this context initially, then get specific in terms of job descriptions later.

			As businesses, organizations need to also think about IoT and government regulation. In the last section, we talked about GDPR and data privacy. In an IoT world, customers will want to know who has access to their data.





Common Practices in Strategic and Workforce Planning


			We’ve already talked about a lot of common practices in planning—SMART, Force-field analysis, SWOT, and the like, but there are a couple more that you might find useful.

			RACI

			The first one is RACI. It’s an acronym used in project management to assign responsibilities. It stands for responsible, accountable, consult, and inform. According to Wikipedia, here’s how the individual roles are defined:

			Responsible represents the people who are doing the work. Now I understand not everyone working on a project is hands on, so I’m assuming this is focused on the hands-on, in-the-trenches work to be done. I’d also like to think that being responsible doesn’t absolve you from being held accountable for completing the work.

			Accountable in this context means the person who ultimately will be labeled a success or failure based upon the outcome of the project. It might be the project manager or the person who championed the project in the first place. They also may or may not be doing some of the hands-on work.

			Consult (or counsel) refers to the subject matter experts (SME) whose expertise is needed to complete the project. Depending upon the project scope, they might have a regular role within the project team or maybe they are consulted if a specific problem occurs. I could also see this role not being confined to internal resources. Maybe the subject matter expert is an external consultant or contractor.

			Inform includes the person(s) who are sponsoring the project. Every project has a sponsor that helps the team obtain resources and buy-in. The sponsors must be kept in the loop about the project status. Often, this can be done with written reports and occasional one-on-one meetings, but it’s a critical piece of the project.

			RACI is intriguing because I wonder how many teams actually spend time discussing roles as part of a project plan. I don’t recall ever being on a team where we had a deliberate conversation about this. And I wonder if teams spent more time on this aspect, if it would help the group reach their goals faster and with fewer setbacks. Each person knows their role and can operate effectively, and conflict is reduced.

			Business professionals can benefit from project management tools in their daily interactions. Acronyms like RACI can add a level of clarity to the project—and to the outcome.

			Table 1.4 RACI Template

			 				 					 					 					 					 					 				 				 					 						 						 							(R)esponsible

						 						 							(A)ccountable

						 						 							(C)onsult

						 						 							(I)nform



				 				 					 						 							Task #1



					 						 							Task #2



				 			 			MOCHA

			If you don’t like the RACI acronym or your managers balk at it, here’s another option. I mentioned RACI in a training program once and someone said they use a similar acronym called MOCHA. I—along with several other people—immediately said I was stealing this one.

			Here’s what MOCHA represents:

			Manager: Who handles the day-to-day management of the task or program? Someone must be responsible for the work—whether that’s a task, process, program, and so on. They handle the everyday decisions and coordinate the frontline activities associated with the job.

			Owner: Who is the organizational owner or sponsor for this task or program? Depending upon the type of work we’re referring to, this person might be a senior leader who directs a department or division. Or maybe it’s someone who has a lot of influence in the organization, so we want them to be kept in the loop.

			Consultant: Who advises the group or manager? This could be an internal or external SME. They might have a regular role or be someone who is called in to deal with a specific problem or obstacle.

			Helper: Who does the group or manager tap into for information or assistance? There are always people who help us accomplish our work. They might not be in our department. They might not be on our project team. But we need them for data, information, and sometimes just a supportive ear.

			Approver: Who approves resources for the manager or group? This may or may not be the owner. The approver could be someone in purchasing or procurement. Or maybe they’re the CFO. To be successful, we need both owners and approvers.

			Personally, I thought the MOCHA acronym was a refreshing take on the traditional RACI acronym. I particularly liked the addition of the helper category. I don’t know that organizations spend enough time thinking about the help they might need to accomplish a goal. Not only does this help the group focus on those resources but it provides a way for those helpers to be acknowledged for their contribution.

			The other thing that I liked about MOCHA is that an organization took a concept like RACI and made it work for them. That’s what best practices bring to the table. It’s not always about copying what someone else is doing. It’s about saying, “I like that idea. How can I make it work for me?” New ideas are formed all the time. Most importantly, MOCHA still focuses on establishing accountability for a task or program!

			Oh, and as a side note, I could see MOCHA being fantastic from an internal marketing perspective. Think about all the MOCHA you could include in a project launch meeting. It just writes itself. And it helps the organization perform at a higher level.

			Table 1.5 MOCHA Template

			 				 					 					 					 					 					 					 				 				 					 						 						 							(M)anager

						 						 							(O)wner

						 						 							(C)onsultant

						 						 							(H)elper

						 						 							(A)pprover



				 				 					 						 							Task #1



					 						 							Task #2





Measuring and Evaluating Strategic and Workforce Planning


			Every task or activity we do needs to be measured and evaluated—every. single one.

			Measurements and evaluations don’t have to be long, drawn-out processes. But we do need to ask ourselves, “How are we doing?” Measurements and evaluations do that.

			When it comes to evaluating a company’s planning process, some of you might be saying “Hey, this is easy!” And on some level, that’s true. When we’re talking about measuring the results of a plan, actually accomplishing the goal is a good place start. Let’s say the organization wants to expand globally and it opens a new location in India, then it’s accomplished the goal. But there’s a bit more that the organization can measure and evaluate.

			Another aspect of measurement and evaluation is not only what the goal was but how the organization accomplished its goal. How good was the planning process? This might be a great time to conduct a debrief to get the answer.

			A debrief is defined as a series of questions about a completed mission or undertaking. Personally, I think you only need two questions to conduct an effective debrief:

			 				What did we do well?

				What can we do differently next time?



			I think if organizations make debriefs a lengthy activity, they might be averse to doing them. Keeping the debrief contained to two questions will make the process go faster and yield good information.

			Next, in looking at the definition of a debrief, keep in mind that organizations, departments, and individuals can do debriefs. They are not just for strategic and workforce planning. Companies can debrief after events, departments can debrief after a project, and individuals can debrief after they achieve a goal. Companies that embrace debriefs can set themselves apart by always learning and not making the same mistakes over and over.

			When conducting a debrief, always start with the “What did we do well?” question. It’s tempting to immediately start listing all the things that went wrong, but I’m confident that there were some things that went right. Organizations need to take a moment to recognize their successes. Stop and force a moment to talk about what went well. After all, these are things that the organization doesn’t want to stop doing.

			Then, talk about what you’d like to do differently next time. Please notice that I didn’t say what went wrong. It’s possible nothing went wrong. But maybe the organization would like to do a few things differently.

			If the organization is struggling to come up with stuff to talk about during the debrief, here are a few things to consider:

			 				Did everyone participate in developing the plan? If not, why?

				Was the planning process complete? Did the organization miss anything?

				Were the plan’s assumptions correct?

				Was the budget accurate? If not, why?

				Was the timeline accurate? If not, why?

				How were plan check-in meetings? Did the organization have them? Were they helpful?

				How did we do in making plan adjustments/modifications?



			Depending on the project being debriefed, the organization can conduct a debrief a couple of ways. They can bring the stakeholders together and discuss the results. Another option is to do a quick online survey, and then bring the group together to cover areas that need clarification. For instance, the organization has just completed a big technology implementation project. They send out an online survey asking the project team to rate results in terms of planning, budget, timeline, and results. Everyone on the project team gave high marks to the timeline results. The company might want to find out specifically what the group did to maintain the project timeline. This becomes a proven success strategy to use in the future. Don’t assume that all the debrief will focus on is the bad stuff.

			Another example might be related to emergency preparedness. For example, I used to live in a region that was susceptible to hurricanes. Sometimes it was necessary to activate the emergency response team, even if ultimately a hurricane didn’t hit our area. We always did a debrief. Every time we activated the committee, we did a debrief. It allowed us to make sure that the group was still operating well. We could compare the debrief to past debriefs.

			In addition to conducting regular debriefs, organizations might want to create and maintain what is called a triple bottom line or TBL. TBL represents three business outcomes: profit, people, and planet. Profit we understand. It’s the organization’s financial performance. Even if you’re technically a not-for-profit organization, there’s an element of fiscal responsibility. Profit is focused on running the organization well.



			Figure 1.7 The Triple Bottom Line

			People is about value to stakeholders, and in this case, stakeholders include customers, employees, vendors, and the community. It’s all the people that the organization engages with. The idea is that the people who are connected to the organization feel good about the partnership. The organization does what is right for people and promotes equity.

			Finally, the third component is planet. This relates to the organization’s corporate social responsibility and sustainability efforts. The organization conducts itself in a way that is not harmful to the planet. This includes minimizing waste as well as putting new practices in place to ethically source materials.

			Sometimes, when organizations discuss the TBL, they explain it as a Venn diagram with sustainability being at the center. They also look to organizations like the Global Reporting Initiative to help them show the business results they achieve with this approach. A couple of recognizable organizations that have adopted TBL include Unilever, DHL, IKEA, and Patagonia.





Additional Resources


			If you’re looking for some additional resources to help with planning, here are a few of my favorite books on the subject.

			Abrashoff, D. Michael. It’s Your Ship: Management Techniques from the Best Damn Ship in the Navy. New York: Grand Central Publishing, 2007.

			This is a true story about how the USS Benfold went from being the worst to the best ship in the Navy. It is possible to turn bad situations around. It just takes hard work and a plan.

			Bossidy, Larry, Ram Charan, and Charles Burck. Execution: The Discipline of Getting Things Done. New York: Crown Business, 2002.

			Once you have a plan, you need to implement it. I love this book because it focuses on how to get stuff done. Planning is good, but you must accomplish the plan.

			Carasco, Marie, and William J. Rothwell. The Essential HR Guide for Small Businesses and Startups: Best Practices, Tools, Examples, and Online Resources. Alexandria, VA: Society for Human Resource Management, 2020.

			Small businesses sometimes have unique challenges due to their size. Maybe they don’t have an HR department. That doesn’t mean they shouldn’t plan or that they won’t get any benefit from planning. This book helps smaller businesses leverage their size to achieve results.

			Posner, Barry Z., and James M. Kouzes. The Leadership Challenge: How to Make Extraordinary Things Happen in Organizations, 6th ed. Hoboken, NJ: Wiley, 2017.

			I would be terribly remiss if I didn’t put one leadership book on this list. There are lots of leadership books out there—but I regularly get positive feedback from managers about this one.

			Schmidt, Warren H., and Jerome P. Finnigan. The Race without a Finish Line: America’s Quest for Total Quality. San Francisco: Wiley, 1992.

			While the term total quality management (a.k.a. TQM) has gone to the wayside, quality is still a huge concern for organizations. I’m including this book because often planning has a focus on improving processes and quality.





“Fail to Plan. Plan to Fail”


			I hope you’ve found this chapter helpful in refining your strategic and workforce planning processes. It can be very easy to push planning to the side and only focus on operating the business. When times are good, organizations say, “No! We don’t have time to plan. We’re busy making money.” And when things are not so good, organizations say, “No! We don’t have time to plan. We need to focus on making money!”

			This is exactly why organizations need to plan. And it’s exactly why HR departments need to develop workforce plans that will support the strategic plan.

			Throughout my corporate career, I’ve worked for organizations that needed to turn some things around. This is fine, even the best organizations can get off track. But one of the things I discovered is that when an organization is struggling, the company’s workforce plan becomes a target of conversation. Actually, let me rephrase that last sentence in more blunt terms: when organizations struggle, they will often blame the recruitment process for their problems.

			“Things would be fine if we had the right people.”

			“We don’t have the right people because HR is too slow hiring.”

			“We’re losing great candidates because HR isn’t finding the right people.”

			You get my point. And hopefully, you have never and will never be on the receiving end of this conversation. Because the answer is planning. The company’s strategic plan is the foundation for the company’s workforce plan. And the company’s workforce plan drives talent acquisition, which is what we are going to discuss in the next chapter.



* * *



			 				 					1	Cloud-washing is an attempt by a vendor to rebrand an old product or service as new by associating the buzzword “cloud” with it.



				 					2	Frankenstein products are any products that are made of two or more components, which while apart could be disposed of but, now that they’re together, can no longer be separated. Example: a milk carton is a Frankenstein product because it’s a combination of paper and plastic.



				 					3	 Sneakernet is a slang term referring to the act of physically transporting data between computers rather than sharing over a network. A common example would be transferring information between computers using a USB flash drive.





OceanofPDF.com





Chapter 2


			Talent Acquisition


			 				Why Is Talent Acquisition Important?

				Talent Acquisition: The Planning Part

				Talent Acquisition: The Hiring Part

				Ten Talent-Acquisition Terms You Should Know

				Talent-Acquisition Models, Theories, and Philosophies

				Legal Considerations in Talent Acquisition

				The Role of Technology in Talent Acquisition

				Common Practices in Talent Acquisition

				Measuring and Evaluating Talent Acquisition

				Additional Talent-Acquisition Resources

				You Don’t Want to Be the Reason That Planes Don’t Fly





Why Is Talent Acquisition Important?


			In the last chapter, we talked about strategic planning, which focuses on the goals and objectives of the organization, and workforce planning, which deals with the talent that will help the organization achieve its strategic plan. Talent acquisition is the process of accomplishing the workforce plan—therefore, accomplishing the strategic plan.

			I’m sure many people already know the definition of talent acquisition. SHRM defines it as “dealing with the strategies, tactics, and processes for identifying, recruiting, and retaining the human resources a company needs.” One of the words that I really like in SHRM’s definition is retaining. A key goal in the talent acquisition process isn’t just to find employees. It’s to find employees who will stay with the organization.

			I like to paraphrase SHRM’s definition as “finding the right people at the right time using the right amount of company resources.” Organizations do not have unlimited resources to find and hire the best talent, which is why talent acquisition is so important. And while my definition might sound easy, it’s not. Regardless of what’s happening with the unemployment rate and the labor market, finding the best candidates at the time the organization needs them using as few resources as possible is hard.

			One thing to consider as you’re reading this chapter: As a human resources professional, you might already have some exposure to talent acquisition. It could be something you currently do every day. It might be helpful as you’re reading this chapter to wear two hats and think about the hiring managers who you work with on a regular basis. What information about talent acquisition do they need to know? The information in this chapter might spark some creative inspiration for your managers’ recruitment skills training program.



			Figure 2.1 The Talent Acquisition Process





Talent Acquisition: The Planning Part


			The talent acquisition process has three parts: planning, hiring, and onboarding. The last part, onboarding, we’re going to discuss in the next chapter. This chapter will be focused on the planning and hiring components.

			Some of you might be saying, “More planning?! Didn’t we just finish a whole chapter on planning?” And you’re right, we did, but we need to do more planning. This is a different type of planning. Strategic planning and workforce planning are processes that happen regularly, but they don’t happen daily. The planning we’re doing in talent acquisition happens daily—or at least it should. When I first started in HR, my only real exposure to talent acquisition was the hiring part. And my guess is that I’m not alone in this experience. It wasn’t until my boss asked me to lead the company’s talent acquisition efforts that I came to realize all the planning that needs to happen. If we do the planning part well, it really helps when we get to the hiring part. It’s a lesson I learned the hard way. It’s also one of those areas that I discovered when hiring managers were more involved in the planning part, the hiring part was easier for them too.

			The first part of talent acquisition planning is focused on creating the employment brand. An employment brand is the perception that organizations want people to have concerning what it is like to work for the company. For example, the online retailer Zappos has a Twitter account called @InsideZappos to share what it’s like to work there. The company’s employment brand can be used to attract applicants.

			If an organization wants to create or refine their employment brand, a good place to start is with the employee value proposition (EVP). We’re going to cover the EVP in Chapter 5, but for the time being, keep in mind that the EVP is what employees get for working at the company—not just money, it’s the total employee experience.

			Some organizations link their employment brand to their consumer brand. If the company’s consumer brand is casual, then chances are the employment brand is also casual, and vice versa. If the company’s consumer brand is focused on quality, the employment brand will probably be the same. This can be extremely helpful when many of the company’s applicants are also customers. Examples of this include hotels, airlines, retail stores, internet/phone service carriers, and so on. Potential employees are already attracted to the brand as a customer, so they would expect the employee experience to be similar. HR departments might find it helpful to partner with the marketing department when developing the employment brand because they might have insight and resources that can be used company-wide.

			Once the organization has a clear idea of their employment brand, they can create their candidate experience. The candidate experience is exactly what it sounds like—it is the experience that a candidate gets when they are engaging with the organization for a job. Ideally, the candidate experience should align with the employment brand. If the company’s employment brand says that they value work-life balance, then the candidate shouldn’t hear that they’re expected to work sixty-plus hours a week plus take work home and be available on weekends by cell phone.

			Creating alignment between the company’s employment brand and candidate experience is important. If it’s not done well, it can be costly. In Talentegy’s “2019 Candidate Experience Report,” they indicate that 54 percent of job seekers said a negative experience would impact their decision to buy. Personally, I’ve always worked in industries where the candidate could also be a customer so our philosophy was that we should never “lose a candidate and a customer at the same time.” (By the way, if you’re interested, there’s a well-known case study from Virgin Media in which they realized their poor candidate experience was costing them millions and they turned it around. I’ve included information about it in the References and Resources section.) Organizations want to plan the experience that candidates will receive and make sure that it’s one they can be proud of.

			To make sure that candidates get a good experience, the recruiter and hiring manager should conduct what is called the intake meeting which can also be referred to as the recruiting strategy meeting. The result of this meeting is a game plan for how the hiring process will take place. It may be tempting to skip this meeting, especially when we have a lot of work to do or when it’s a position that we regularly recruit for. I would encourage people not to. Little changes can happen with jobs and those little changes add up over time. For example, I used to recruit restaurant servers. The restaurant manager might make a small change to the server’s job duties. The changes weren’t huge, and employees weren’t complaining about it. But I didn’t know them and they weren’t noted on the job description. So, I’m at a disadvantage when it comes to screening applicants, which wastes hiring time and impacts the restaurant operation.

			The purpose of the recruiting strategy meeting is to find out all the details about the job. Some of the details might be located on the job requisition. Also, this is a good time to review the job description with the hiring manager. It could make some sense to show the hiring manager a few applications, résumés, or LinkedIn profiles and get their feedback about whether the individual appears to be qualified. If not, you can ask some questions to get clarity. The intake meeting is also a good time to discuss how the hiring process will be structured.

			The intake meeting doesn’t need to be long, but it does need to be thorough. In the SHRM seminar “Talent Acquisition: Creating Your Organization’s Strategy,” we do an activity focused on creating intake interview questions. Over the years, I’ve kept a running list of the questions that I like to share with participants. (And I’m sure they won’t mind if I share them with you here. This book is all about resource sharing.) The idea is to ask these questions in meetings with managers, peers, and incumbents to gain an understanding of the job.

			 				 					 				 				 					 						 							Sample Recruiting Strategy Meeting Questions

							Position

							 								Is the position new or a replacement (i.e., resignation/termination)?

								Is the position needed long term or on a project basis?

								If this is a replacement position, why did the employee leave?

								Who does this position report to (i.e., organizational chart)?

								Are there any dotted-line responsibilities?

								How many direct reports does this position have?

								Does the job description need to be updated?

								What are some keywords or phrases that jump off the page for you?

								Is the work part of the company’s mission or ancillary work?

								Does this position have any direct reports? If so, how many?

								Does the role have global responsibilities?

								Does this position require bilingual language skills?

								How soon do you want someone to start?

								What is the salary budget for this position? Is our market analysis realistic?

								Is relocation an option?

								Is a signing bonus an option?



							Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities

							 								Describe someone who has been successful in this position.

								How much experience does the candidate need?

								What are three daily work skills that require proficiency on Day One?

								List of must-have technical and people skills.

								List of nice-to-have skills in a candidate.

								What skills can be developed?

								Does this position require a degree, licensing, or special certifications?

								Is industry experience a requirement? If so, how much?



							A Day in the Life

							 								What projects (specifically) would they work on?

								What do the first thirty/sixty/ninety days look like for this position?

								Is there a specific location where this position will be based? Is remote work an option?

								What are the hours for this position? Is flexible scheduling an option?

								Is travel expected in this position? If so, how much?

								What does top performance look like?

								How do you expect this employee to work with you (i.e., manager’s style)?

								What does the current team dynamic look like?

								Name one to two reasons why this person would want to work for you.



							Motivators

							 								Why does someone want to work in your department?

								What are some of the reasons the person will love the job?

								What’s the worst thing about this job?

								What types of business challenges would this position be tasked with solving?



							Sourcing Strategy

							 								Do you need a temp/freelancer in the interim? Is there a budget for it?

								Do you have someone in mind?

								Where have we successfully sourced candidates in the past?

								Are there any websites that you feel we should post this position on?

								Are there any groups or associations that might be good for sourcing?

								Is there a possibility to promote someone on the team?

								Do you prefer that the candidate have a long tenure at their previous employer or that they have worked at several organizations?

								Would a temp-to-perm option be possible?

								Is this a confidential search?



							Interview Process

							 								Who will be a part of the interview process (i.e., the hiring team)?

								What is your availability for interviews?

								Are you willing to interview marginally qualified candidates?

								Should an assessment (or background check) be a part of the selection process?



							Future Opportunities

							 								Is your team ready to train this person?

								What’s the thirty/sixty/ninety-day training plan for this hire?

								What’s the career path/growth potential for this role?

								What does the success profile look like at ninety days, six months, and one year?

								What is the career trajectory for this position in five years?





				 			 			Two last things I’d like to mention about the intake meeting: Don’t hesitate to make it part of your regular routine to send a quick follow-up email summary with the hiring manager after the meeting. This eliminates any confusion later. We’re not implying anything nefarious here. Both you and the hiring manager have a lot going on. It’s possible someone will forget something. The email is a nice touch. And should you need to make changes—which is entirely possible—then you know that you’re consciously changing the plan.

			Also try to build into your plan a quick debrief with the hiring manager. Once the new hire has settled in, take a moment to review the process. What went well? Maybe you tried a new source or added a question during the screening interview. What would you do differently? Possibly move to a panel interview, or maybe it’s time to consider an assessment. Your process will get stronger when you take the time to debrief.





Talent Acquisition: The Hiring Part


			Now that our planning is complete and we’re on the same page with the hiring manager, it’s time to start the hiring process. The first step is to source.

			Sourcing is the process of searching for qualified candidates. The keyword here is qualified. It’s very possible to get a lot of applications from unqualified candidates. Hiring managers need to understand this! It’s not about getting lots of applications. It’s about getting lots of qualified applications. Reviewing unqualified applications isn’t the best use of time, so finding good sources is important.

			There are two types of sources: internal and external. Internal sources come from inside the organization. Two of the most common internal sourcing methods are job posting and job bidding. Job posting is when the organization posts an open job and allows current employees to apply. Job bidding is when an employee expresses an interest in a future opportunity. I’ve often seen job bidding happen in the sales department. A sales coordinator might say that they’re interested in being considered for the next sales manager opening.

			External sources are the ones that connect with candidates outside the organization. They include the company’s career website, job boards, social media, associations, trade, professional organizations, and so on. There are many external sourcing options, so one activity that every HR department should be doing is testing for new sources. While we will always have sources that give us great results on a consistent basis, it wouldn’t be prudent to put all our eggs in one basket. We should regularly look for opportunities to test new sources in case we run into some challenges and need to expand our search. Consider in your next budget request

			 				Finding a hiring manager that will support developing new sources,

				Asking for some resources specifically to test new sources,

				Documenting the success criteria and time frame, and

				Keeping track of sourcing effectiveness results.



			Some of this information might seem obvious, but I do believe there are moments when we might benefit from connecting the dots for hiring managers, especially new managers who maybe haven’t seen the entire talent acquisition process. Our sourcing efforts should bring us qualified applicants, and then we need to decide which of those applicants we’re going to speak to about the position. The guidance we received during the intake interview can help us narrow down the applicants for the screening interview.

			A screening interview is typically conducted by HR either via phone, through video, or in person. It’s a short conversation focused on the essential qualifications, which could include salary requirements, scheduling, and must-have certifications or licenses. For example, let’s say the organization is looking for customer service agents. The position pays $18/hour, must be available to work on weekends and holidays, and needs to be proficient with Microsoft Excel pivot tables. There’s no reason to send an applicant to the hiring manager for an interview who doesn’t meet these criteria. The screening interview should cover these three topics.

			After the screening interview, the hiring manager conducts a more in-depth interview. This conversation is usually focused on three areas:

			 				Job experience and qualifications. (Can they do the job?)

				Ability to be a good employee. (Are they capable of being a valuable member of the team?)

				Future potential. (Is there a possibility they could move up in the company?)



			Some organizations include additional “interviews” that allow candidates to meet other individuals they might interact with regularly. When I’ve interviewed for HR roles, I not only met my boss but also the department managers who I would spend the most time with. These interviews allow other stakeholders to buy into the hiring of the candidate. And for the candidate, it allows them to meet more people than HR and their boss, which can be very helpful during onboarding. If the organization is going to include more individuals than HR and the hiring manager, it’s important to understand the role those individuals will play in the process. For instance, will individuals have any say if they don’t like the candidate? This needs to be discussed, and even if an interviewer can’t “reject” a candidate, they need to know that they can express concerns about the candidate’s ability.

			Once the interviews are complete, the hiring manager will make their final selection. HR can play an important advisory role during this step by making sure the hiring manager remains unbiased in their decision making. This is another moment when the conversation from the intake meeting can be beneficial in keeping the selection process focused on the topics that were discussed as must-haves versus nice-to-have. If you want to formalize your selection process, SHRM has candidate evaluation forms in the “Resources and Tools” section of their website.

			Organizations handle extending the job offer many ways—everything from the hiring manager doing it to HR doing it to a combination of the two. When deciding how your organization plans to extend job offers, one thing to consider is offer negotiations. It’s just my preference, but I’ve always tried to keep hiring managers out of the situation of negotiating job offers with a candidate. This is not because they don’t know how to negotiate, but because it just didn’t seem like a great way to start the manager/employee relationship. There will be plenty of moments in the future when the manager will have to discuss pay and benefits with an employee, but it doesn’t need to be the first conversation. HR extends the offer and handles any negotiations. Once the offer is extended, then the manager follows up with a “welcome” message. Whoever has the responsibility for extending a verbal job offers should be trained on the proper (and legal) way to do it. Typically, the verbal offer is followed up in writing. SHRM has job offer letter templates in the “HR Forms” section of their website if you’re looking for resources in this area.

			Good news! The candidate has accepted the offer and will be starting shortly! In the next chapter, we’ll finish the talent acquisition process with a conversation about onboarding.





Ten Talent-Acquisition Terms You Should Know


			There are so many talent acquisition terms, it was a challenge narrowing the list down to ten. I think this index provides both some basics as well as some new definitions to be on the lookout for. It might also be helpful in making sure that HR and hiring managers are speaking the same language. The list is presented in process order, meaning the order that you might encounter it within the talent acquisition process.

			Job Requisition

			A requisition is an order. A job requisition is a job order. The reason I’m including this term is because organizations should decide if talent acquisition will be driven by requisitions or, if it makes better business sense, workforce plans. They are two different things.

			Recruiting Process Outsourcing

			A recruiting process outsourcing (RPO) is an organization that provides third-party recruiting services. It’s not a staffing agency. An RPO supports the organization by providing a customized recruitment process. Some companies might find having an external partner handling their recruitment to be both effective and efficient.

			Recruitment Marketing

			This is the practice of using traditional marketing techniques (such as the four Ps of product, price, place, and promotion) to promote the company’s employment brand and open jobs identified via job requisition. Effective recruitment marketing strategies should attract qualified candidates to the organization.

			Social Media

			Merriam-Webster defines social media as “forms of electronic communication through which users can create online communities and share communications.” Organizations use social media sites as an integral part of their recruitment marketing strategy. Knowing how to create a social media strategy and use social media platforms is not an optional skill for HR professionals.

			Candidate Persona

			Marketing departments often create customer personas. They are archetypes that represent the ideal customer based on research and data that the organization has gathered. In recruitment, a candidate persona is an archetype that represents the ideal candidate based on information from the intake interview. It does not contain any descriptors that are in violation of Title VII of the Civil Rights Act.

			Geofencing

			This is the use of global positioning system (GPS) technology to create a virtual geographic boundary (i.e., a “fence”) that enables a mobile device to trigger a response when it enters or leaves the area. Ever wonder how your laptop knows when you’ve arrived in a new city because all the restaurant ads are local? That’s geofencing. And companies can do it not only for customer marketing but also for recruitment.

			Applicants and Candidates

			It’s important to draw a distinction here because it could impact how you define your candidate experience. Applicants are the people who apply for jobs. Candidates are the ones who get interviewed. All candidates are applicants. But not all applicants are candidates.

			Realistic Job Preview

			A realistic job preview is when organizations provide a glimpse (i.e., a “preview”) of some important aspect of a job to a candidate. The preview could be a video, a simulation, a tour, or an activity like an inbox exercise. The goal of the preview is to provide the candidate with an honest look at the job to help them understand the work environment.

			Validity

			This is the concept that the information being used is valid for the selection process. Validity is often used in the context of pre-employment assessments. The assessment should be valid for the job and for recruitment. Validity can also be used when evaluating candidates, meaning that only valid information should be considered.

			Reliability

			Like validity, reliability is often used in pre-employment assessments. This is the concept that the information being used for selection is consistent. Any information used in selection should be valid (measure job related characteristics) and reliable (in a consistent manner). If a tool is valid, then it is usually reliable. However, if a tool is reliable, that doesn’t automatically mean it’s valid. Just remember that it’s possible to be consistently wrong.





Talent-Acquisition Models, Theories, and Philosophies


			In this section, I offer additional practical information that might help when developing your organization’s recruitment strategies.

			Job Analysis and Job Descriptions

			Earlier in this chapter, I mentioned the job description, which is such an important piece in the hiring process, especially if you’re hiring a job for the first time. I’m reminded of when I was hired to work at an airline. My boss called me before my first day to tell me that they had a high priority project that I would be working on—hiring the director of inflight services. She asked, “Can you do that?” My response was, “Sure, just one question: What’s a director of inflight services do?” In case you’re wondering, they oversaw the flight attendant group and the services that took place inflight. It makes sense now, but back then, the job description was very helpful.

			If the organization doesn’t have current job descriptions, it could make sense to do a job analysis. This is the process of reviewing the key requirements for the job: education, experience, essential responsibilities, and the like. A job analysis can be as detailed as you want to spend the time. There are three ways that a job analysis can be completed:

			 				Interview. This can happen in person or via video call. The advantage to this method is that the interviewer (either HR or the hiring manager) can talk to someone, read their body language, and ask follow-up questions if necessary. The challenge is that it takes time and requires a skilled interviewer.

				Observation. This is exactly what it sounds like. Someone observes and records the work. Like the interview option, it does require a skilled observer and it takes time. The plus side is that observation could uncover activities that someone fails to mention during an interview. Maybe they didn’t remember them or didn’t feel the task was important.

				Survey. This is the least expensive option. Surveys can be done via pen and paper or electronically. They could also be anonymous if necessary. The biggest challenge with a survey is getting responses. Survey fatigue is a real thing. Organizations will want to be careful about overwhelming employees with surveys.



			Buy, Build, Borrow, and Bots

			One of the biggest decisions that an organization must make when recruiting is whether to hire a regular full-time employee from the outside (BUY), train a current employee (BUILD), contract with a freelancer (BORROW), or bring in a technology solution (BOTS). Each has their own unique advantages and disadvantages:

			 				Buy is when the company hires workers from the outside. The advantage to this approach is that the organization gets fresh perspectives and new ideas. The disadvantage is that it can be expensive to attract high-performing workers from the outside, especially if there’s a candidate’s market or a lot of competition for talent.

				Build is when the company develops their existing workforce. The upside is that this strategy is great for employee morale because it shows that the organization is investing in developing current employees. The downside is that developing a future workforce takes time. It also means having the learning and development resources available whether that’s an internal team or external partnerships.

				Borrow is when the company uses freelancers or consultants when the need arises. Not every job is a full-time job. Let me repeat that—not every job is a full-time job. The positive side to this approach is looking outside the organization to get the necessary skills at the moment they are needed. The challenging side is keeping freelancers engaged so that when you need them, they’re available and ready to work for you.

				Bots are used when the organization has a defined, predictable, repetitive task. The plus would be that the organization would gain consistency and scalability in managing these kinds of tasks. The minus would be return-on-investment (ROI) as well as the perceived loss of human interaction.



			Ideally, the conversation about buy, build, borrow, or bots would happen before or during the recruiting strategy meeting because the answer would determine how the organization will proceed from a sourcing standpoint. Hiring a freelancer is a different process from hiring an outside employee. It could also involve more departments than HR and the hiring manager.

			Employee Referral Program

			One of the most effective ways to source talent for your organization is through employee referral programs. Referrals often provide the best candidates at the lowest cost-per-hire. (CPH) (We’ll review the calculation for CPH later in this chapter.) While an employee referral program shouldn’t be used exclusively as a recruiting source, it can be a very effective one.

			Given how well employee referral programs can work for companies, organizations need to establish clear goals for the program, and I don’t mean “get as many referrals as you can.” If you think about it, whenever we create programs, we have a goal for them. It might be to hire X number of candidates or reduce recruiting costs by X amount or improve quality of hire by X percent. The goals for an employee referral program could drive the way the program is structured. Here are a few considerations:

			 				Is the program an “employee referral” program or just a “referral” program? Some organizations are opening their program to former employees and even customers.

				Is one of the goals of the program to save money on recruiting costs? And if so, does it make sense to pay a bonus or “thank you”? Many organizations offer some sort of bonus because it saves the company money and time sourcing.

				If the company doesn’t want to offer a monetary “thank you,” is there another type of thanks they can offer? I’ve heard of organizations offering paid time off (PTO) or products or services.

				What’s an appropriate value for a “thank you”? In SHRM’s last benchmarking report, the average CPH is $4,129. If someone saved the company a couple thousand dollars in recruiting costs, does a $10 Starbucks gift card seem appropriate? I’ll let you decide.

				Does it make sense to change the program details based on hiring needs? For instance, the organization is opening a new location. Referrals for that new location will receive a larger “thank you” bonus. And once the new location is staffed, then the bonus will revert.

				Should a goal of the program include quality of hire? If that’s the case, how will the company measure quality?

				Like quality of hire, should a program goal include length of employment? Are referral bonuses subject to new hires staying with the company a certain length of time? If so, does that effect when the “thank you” is awarded? My opinion on this one has really evolved over time. Since the person providing the referral doesn’t have a role in hiring, training, or engaging the new hire, should they have to wait for a “thank you?” They did what the program asked them to do. Something to think about.



			Organizations regularly talk about how tough it is to find and keep talent. They also talk about how good employee referral programs are. Maybe it’s time to have some defined goals for the program, along with established ways to measure results. That will keep this source effective and maybe even improve it.

			Behavioral Interviewing (i.e., STAR Method)

			Validity and reliability are two of the terms defined earlier in this chapter. It’s important for recruiters and hiring managers to ask interview questions that are not only legally compliant but valid and reliable. One way to achieve that is by using behavioral interviewing questions.

			The best way to explain behavioral interview questions is to talk about the three types of interview questions.

			The first is the closed-ended question, to which a candidate provides a yes/no or one-word reply. Closed-ended questions are great for confirmation. For example, a hiring manager might ask, “I see on your résumé that you used to work for Dunder Mifflin Paper Company. What year did you leave?” And the candidate responds. But it doesn’t make sense to use a closed-ended question such as “Do you have good customer service skills?” because chances are the candidate will not say, “No, my customer service skills totally suck.”

			The second type of interview question is the situational one. This type of question asks a candidate to share how they would react to a situation. Using the same customer service example, a hiring manager could ask, “How would you handle an angry customer?” The candidate can provide a great answer. A word of caution though—just because a candidate says that’s how they would handle the situation doesn’t mean that they will actually do that when faced with an angry customer.

			The third type of interviewing question, a behavioral interviewing question, asks the candidate to tell a story from their past that’s relevant to the position they’re interviewing for. Behavioral interview questions are valid (because they’re focused on the job) and reliable (because there’s a good chance that how someone handled something in the past is the way they will handle it in the future). An example of a behavioral interview question is, “Tell me about a time when you had to handle an angry customer.” The candidate can share a story.

			To ensure that the interviewer gets all the relevant information from the candidate, they can use the STAR acronym. STAR stands for situation, task, action, result. Situation represents the situation that happened. Task is what you were trying to accomplish. Action is what you did. And result is the outcome. Let’s say the candidate tells a story about an angry customer and they talk about what the team did but not their own role. The interviewer could follow-up with a question about what the candidate was responsible for. Or the candidate tells the story, and they forget to share how it ended with the customer. You can ask about that.

			The STAR acronym allows the interviewer to make sure that they receive all the details, which you will ultimately need to evaluate the candidate.





Legal Considerations in Talent Acquisition


			Many of the legal considerations for talent acquisition are legal concepts to keep in mind for all aspects of human resources. Here are a few US employment laws that are regularly mentioned in talent acquisition.

			Title VII of the Civil Rights Act prohibits employment discrimination based on race, color, religion, sex, and national origin. We’re not just talking about hiring. It refers to any employment decision including promotions, transfers, training, terminations, and so on. Two forms of discriminatory practice that are often mentioned with Title VII are disparate impact and disparate treatment.

			Disparate Impact

			Sometimes called unintentional discrimination, it’s when a policy or practice appears to be neutral on the surface but results in a protected group being negatively impacted. An example would be if an organization conducts pre-employment testing that unintentionally eliminates a minority group from consideration.

			Disparate Treatment

			This is intentional discrimination. Using the same example as before, an organization conducting pre-employment testing for only certain minority candidates is considered disparate treatment.

			The Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) prohibits discrimination against individuals with disabilities and requires employers to make reasonable accommodations for them to do their jobs. The law has specific definitions for physical and mental impairments as well as what is considered a reasonable accommodation. A key component of the law is the definition of “essential functions,” which are those job responsibilities that an employee must be able to perform with or without reasonable accommodation. This is often an important conversation during job analysis and the development of job descriptions.

			The Age Discrimination in Employment Act (ADEA) prohibits discrimination against persons forty years of age or older. A main provision of this act is that employers (with very few exceptions) cannot force an employee to retire. There’s also the Older Worker Benefit Protection Act (OWBPA) which imposes requirements on waivers of age discrimination claims.

			Mandatory Labor Law Postings and Employee Notices

			I’m bringing up labor law postings because the first three laws have to do with discrimination and it’s possible the organization doesn’t talk about them regularly. There are requirements—like labor law postings—that must be done proactively. It’s essential to the business and not just from the standpoint of avoiding fines and penalties.

			Telling employees their legal rights is simply the right thing to do. The last thing an organization wants is to develop a reputation for being an employer that doesn’t operate in good faith. It will impact the company’s ability to hire, engage, and retain the best talent, which ultimately impacts the bottom line.

			According to Ashley Kaplan, Esq., senior employment attorney for HRdirect, there are two distinct types of mandatory employee notifications: labor law posters and employee handouts.

			Because there are two types of mandatory employee communications, it’s possible that organizations might overlook one because they have the other. Kaplan says, “There is some overlap with posters and handouts, so it can be confusing to employers what’s required at a federal, state, and local level.”

			When it comes to mandatory employee communications, Kaplan shared four key things that employers should remember when it comes to compliance:

			 				Mandatory posters and handouts are legal notifications, typically issued by government agencies. Common examples are family and medical leave, workers’ compensation, and sexual harassment in the workplace. These notifications are required at a federal, state, and local level. In addition, government agencies might require notifications in multiple languages.

				Many required communications are distributed to employees at the time of hire during orientation. However, some are “event driven,” meaning that they must be distributed at the time of the event. For instance, Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA) notifications should be provided to the employee when they are requesting leave. We will talk more about FMLA in Chapter 5 (Employee Value Proposition).

				Remember current employees need to be notified as well. When new notifications are required, organizations should start giving new hires those new required notifications, but we can’t forget about existing employees. They need to be notified about the new or changed requirements as well. Keep in mind that some government agencies will require that notifications are acknowledged (i.e., signed) by the employee.

				And finally, some employee handouts are in addition to any labor law poster requirements for your workplace. Yes, this is what makes mandatory employee notifications so tricky. Kaplan pointed out that some laws require only postings, some require postings and handouts, and others only require handouts. It’s important to know the requirements.



			The good news is that some government agencies do offer free downloads of these employee handouts. In those situations, HR can simply download the document. The challenge is that no government one-stop shop will tell you everything you’re required to do. According to Kaplan, there are “across the nation, more than four hundred different federal and state notices that employers must distribute based on different triggering events. In a state like California, there can be up to thirty-two employee notices issued by up to five different agencies for compliance.” In addition, agencies don’t often notify employers of changes. So not only do employers need to know where to look for legal requirements, they must regularly go back and check to ensure they comply with changes.

			One more thing: There are instances when government agencies do not offer templates or free downloads and employers are responsible for creating the handout on their own. And I don’t have to tell you what that means. HR is responsible for everything that comes with designing the new form—researching the legal guidelines, creating the document, getting legal approvals, communicating the change, and so on. Oh, and I know I don’t have to tell you (but I’ll say it anyway), if an organization is caught being out of compliance, they are subject to fines, penalties, and legal exposure.

			But let me end this section with some more good news (and a little sales pitch). You don’t have do this alone. There are services—like HRdirect—that specialize in providing companies with access to current posters and handouts. They take care of the monitoring and notify you when changes happen. I’m just tossing it out there as something to consider when determining the best use of your time.

			Data Privacy and Security

			In the last chapter, we mentioned the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). While other areas of the world might not have the equivalent of GDPR, I think we must heighten our awareness when it comes to candidate and employee data privacy and security. Back in 2014, film studio Sony Pictures made front-page headlines after a hacker group released confidential data about their operation. While many people were focused on the emails about actors Angelina Jolie and Charlie Sheen, the released information included employee data. Organizations need to ask questions about the security of the technology platforms they use and proactively put plans in place to deal with data breaches, in the hopes they never occur.





The Role of Technology in Talent Acquisition


			Technology plays a huge role in talent acquisition. In fact, there are entire organizations, events, and conferences dedicated to recruiting technology. One conference to check out is the HR Technology Conference & Expo, hosted by Human Resource Executive magazine. It typically takes place in the fall and is 100 percent focused on human resources technology solutions.

			Applicant Tracking Systems

			Applicant tracking systems (ATS) are software applications that act as a database for job applicants. While more than 95 percent of the Fortune 500 use an ATS, plenty of smaller companies do as well. ATSs come in all shapes and sizes to fit an employer’s recruiting needs. The most common features in an ATS are collecting applications and résumés, comparing the applicant’s information to the job requirements, and ranking candidates. This helps HR save time and focus their interviews on the most qualified applicants. ATSs also provide certain levels of reporting in terms of recruiting sources and compliance reporting.

			Mobile Recruiting

			If organizations want to “win the talent wars,” they need to have a mobile recruiting strategy. According to Pew Research, 97 percent of Americans own a cellphone of some kind. Of those, 85 percent are smartphones. What’s equally interesting is that 15 percent of Americans are “smartphone only” users, meaning they do not have home internet service. For organizations trying to recruit the best talent, this means that many of the people you want to see your job openings might be doing it from a smartphone.

			Organizations need to think about their career websites being mobile responsive. A mobile-responsive website is designed in a way to display information in the best way for the device it’s being viewed on. If you want to do a quick test to see if a website is mobile responsive, look at it on a desktop or laptop and then on a tablet or smartphone. If the tablet or smartphone version of the site is simply a smaller version of the desktop or laptop version, then it’s not mobile responsive. If the site changes for better readability, then it’s mobile responsive. Check out the SHRM website when you have a moment—it’s mobile responsive. Organizations want their career websites to be mobile responsive so potential job candidates can easily read their postings.

			That leads us to the second part of mobile recruiting. Organizations must make it easy for people to apply using their mobile device. If I see a great job that I want to apply for, but the only way I can apply is by going home and uploading my résumé, there’s a chance I won’t get around to it. Or even worse, what if I need to go home, grab the flash drive that has my résumé, go to the library, and then send it in. Don’t get me wrong, I’m not anti-library. The point is that the more steps a job applicant must go through to apply for your jobs, the less likely they are to do it. Especially if your competition is making it easier.

			Something to consider: Is there a way to have applicants provide a link to an online profile (sites like LinkedIn and Indeed have candidate profiles), then at a later point in the process, ask the candidate to fill out an application?

			Artificial Intelligence

			Many human resources departments are looking at artificial intelligence (AI) to scale their efforts and bring consistency to their activity. While HR isn’t going to have to do the programming, they do need to know enough to guide the conversation and make decisions about what’s best for the company.

			To help us understand more about artificial intelligence, I had the opportunity to interview Armen Berjikly, director of product at BetterUp, where his expertise in human–computer interaction brings together world-class coaching, AI technology, and behavioral science. Just an FYI: portions of this interview were originally published on my blog, HR Bartender. I wanted to share it with you because I believe Armen does a great job of making AI very relatable to both our personal lives and the talent acquisition process.

			Sharlyn Lauby: Armen, let’s start with a definition. What is artificial intelligence (AI)? And how does it differ from concepts like emotional intelligence (EI)?

			Armen Berjikly: First, AI is an approach, not a specific skill. There’s a professor at Georgia Tech named Charles Isbell who has a fun way of defining AI: “making computers act like they do in movies.” Another way to look at it: AI is “what’s next.” It’s a constantly moving target focused on providing the answer to the biggest technology challenges.

			My worldview is that AI is the ability for a machine to learn new things from its environment that it wasn’t initially programmed to do. I also think what AI learns should be interesting and not obvious to people.

			Emotional intelligence, on the other hand, is probably best defined by having and displaying empathy. For example, [it is] to know what someone is feeling, even when their words tell you something different. You can, of course, have AI with characteristics of emotional intelligence (back to making computers act like they do in movies!).

			Lauby: Can you point us to an example of AI that we may already be using or familiar with?

			Berjikly: AI is all around us, and due to its loose definition (a machine that mimics human behavior and makes “smart” decisions), you don’t have to look very far to find it. Siri, Alexa, Google Home, Cortana—these are all examples of machines we talk to, that try to figure out from our speech what we’re saying, and then do what we ask of them.

			Navigation apps like Google Maps is another example. We’re in the driver’s seat, looking for a way home. Behind the scenes, an AI toolkit is crunching live and historical data to actively predict the best route and determine how long it’ll take to get there.

			Yet another: SPAM filters. Every time you receive a new email, the machine determines whether it’s something you’ll want to read, even though it’s likely never seen that particular combination of words and email addresses before.

			Lauby: How should we view artificial intelligence—user interface? Chatbot? A little of both? Or possibly neither?

			Berjikly: AI can be viewed as an enabling platform. I think AI, as a concept, can be quite meaningless by itself. But it provides a meaningful foundation—and you can build some interesting things on top of an AI view of the world. So, in this instance, AI can power a user interface or a chatbot to understand, reply to, and act on inputs.

			Lauby: There’s lots of talk about AI replacing jobs, which can be perceived as a bit scary. But I have to think AI can also make work better. Can you share an example where AI makes jobs easier?

			Berjikly: The application of computers automating people’s tasks is not AI—that’s simple automation because there is no active learning involved. The systems are taught a specific thing to do, and they mindlessly do it repeatedly.

			By contrast, I believe AI’s place in the world should be to relentlessly help us do the high-value things we want to do but often cannot because we get bogged down by everyday challenges. By offloading the things that we as people struggle with, such as making sense of lots of high-volume, complicated data while countering fatigue, [it helps] us discover meaningful insights we wouldn’t have been able to on our own.

			Radiology is great example, where the machine will augment a radiologist without a hope of replacing them. With AI being able to sift through massive amounts of information with perfect memory and tireless resolve, radiologists can be sure they’re getting a deeper look. The question of what to do with those results isn’t something the machine’s aiming to answer. That’s ultimately up to the radiologist, who has a vast amount of qualitative experience and can use that information to make a more informed decision.

			Lauby: You’ve shared how AI can make work better. Let’s talk about the other side. Name one thing that companies need to be watchful (or cautious) about when it comes to AI.

			Berjikly: A potential concern with AI is the fear and uncertainty it can introduce into an organization if it’s brought into a company without a clear purpose. Technology for technology’s sake—or an implicit embrace of technology to cut costs and increase efficiency—can have a vastly counterproductive effect on the people who have to use it and ensure its success. Instead, companies should have realistic goals, a path in mind, and a vision of how AI can help employees unlock their full potential.

			Lauby: If HR pros can only focus on one to two aspects of artificial intelligence, where should they spend their time?

			Berjikly: Companies should fear being absorbed into the hype of new technology that’s applied without a purpose. With AI, we should focus on helping people fulfill their career ambitions and limit the thought of complete automation or employee replacement—both because it’s often entirely unrealistic and it’s not healthy to look at your organization and only see opportunities for cutting costs. Employees create the value of an organization and equipping them with exciting technology can help further drive value to the business.

			Put another way, we shouldn’t be aiming for the goal of running HR with a joystick. HR is populated with people who care deeply about the creation, growth, and success of their teammates and, by extension, their organization. Until now, they’ve been hamstrung by a lack of products and tools that truly help them solve the big problems, and they’ve been derailed by workflows and workarounds.

			The new world of AI gives us a chance—one that we’ll have to carefully nurture—to solve problems the “right” way, with people top of mind. Technology should meet us as we are, and not the other way around.

			Obviously, we’ve only just scratched the surface of what artificial intelligence can do for our organizations. But as we read more and ask more questions, HR professionals will be well positioned to make the right decisions for their organizations, which in the end means a great candidate and employee experience.

			Automated Scheduling Software

			One of the great things about working in an office is being able to walk around the corner and say to a hiring manager, “Hey! I know this is last minute, but are you available this afternoon to speak with a candidate?” Or at the end of a meeting, I might ask a couple of managers if they can tell me about their availability for a panel interview. We can all look at our laptops, tablets, or phones and quickly pick a date and time.

			Now that more of us are working remotely, it can be a challenge to schedule interviews, especially when multiple people are involved. Hiring teams need a way to replicate that in the office experience and eliminate what you might call “phone tennis.” I know, the term phone tennis might sound funny. The reality is phone tennis is expensive.

			Missing connections translates to time being wasted by the recruiter, the hiring manager, and the candidate. According to a survey conducted by Cronofy, 90 percent of recruiters say that they make two or more attempts (via email, phone, or both) to schedule an interview. That time has a cost. And it’s not time that necessarily improves the candidate experience.

			Automated scheduling software can be an application programming interface (API) or a stand-alone scheduling app. Here are some of the features that scheduling software can provide:

			 				Privacy and Security. I once worked for a company where everyone could see everyone else’s calendar. During my time there, one of the things I learned was that our calendars are very personal. While none of us had any big secrets on our calendars, the act of granting someone access to your calendar is a very personal thing. With scheduling software, you can share your availability for specified periods of time. No one can see your entire calendar. They can only see when you’re available.

				Personalization. Once someone has access to your availability, it can be very frustrating when other people put appointments on your calendar but they don’t pay attention to what’s before or after the appointment. This disregard of your time means that you’re usually placed in a position to either leave a meeting early or arrive at another meeting late (to attend the meeting that they’ve scheduled for you). Scheduling software allows you to build in buffers to your meetings. You can use these buffers to take a last look at a candidate’s résumé, run for a quick break, or simply just breathe. I’m not suggesting this to be funny; we know it’s true. That dash between meetings, even when you’re working remotely, doesn’t allow us to be our best for the interview, and that impacts the candidate experience.

				Flexibility. The points I’ve mentioned so far aren’t exclusive to big or small companies. Privacy and security matter in every size organization. Personalization impacts everyone. Scheduling software can work with any size organization—from the HR department of one to an enterprise. Most software solutions are compatible with Microsoft Outlook, Gmail, and video conferencing.



			I’ve always said that the goal of an interview was to create a conversation. That doesn’t mean we should stop asking questions, but rather figure out how to ask questions as part of a casual conversation. When organizations can turn interviews into conversations, candidates feel comfortable sharing stories about their knowledge and skills. Organizations feel comfortable talking about the reasons employees like working there. That’s one of the reasons to consider automated scheduling software. It can create a process that allows us to stop wasting time and start building relationships, which frankly is what recruiting is all about.

			Video Interviewing

			Prior to the COVID-19 pandemic, video interviews were becoming more common. Since the pandemic, they’ve exploded in popularity, especially for the initial screening step. There are a couple of different types of video interviews.

			One is where a candidate will respond via video to a series of questions and the organization can view the video later. This is a popular option because the candidate can record their responses when it’s convenient, and the company can watch the video when it’s convenient. Anecdotally, some candidates say it’s weird to be talking to a camera, and some companies say it’s weird to be watching a candidate talking to a camera. You’ll have to decide if your organization can move past the uneasiness given the convenience. It might help to do an interview test to empathize with candidates as part of the decision-making process.

			The second type is simply conducting the interview using a video call platform. While this provides all the advantages of having an in-person conversation (like being able to see each other, react to body language, etc.), it’s not exactly the same. Not every video camera has the same resolution, so some people might be a bit blurry, and not everyone is comfortable with being on camera.

			There are a couple of things interviewers can do to help with this. First, organizations must have a plan B for individuals who do not have internet access. According to the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), about 6 percent of the US population does not have access to broadband service at threshold speeds. Even in areas where broadband is available, approximately one hundred million Americans do not subscribe. Therefore, companies cannot make assumptions that every candidate will have the technology capabilities to do a video interview.

			But let’s for a moment say the candidate can conduct a video interview. The second thing the interviewer might want to do is give the candidate a one-sheet about the interview itself. This can be prepared in advance and sent to the candidate when the interview is scheduled. (Side note: see if your ATS or scheduling software will automatically send it for you.) The one-sheet would provide tips to help the candidate feel more comfortable. It could mention how to test the video platform. It could also provide a few tips, like checking your background and maybe even wearing solid colors (less distracting on video). The purpose of the one-sheet isn’t to coach the candidate per se, but to give them tips that will allow them to focus on the right things, like telling the interviewer about their work experience and skills.





Common Practices in Talent Acquisition


			Much time and energy is spent on making the interview process as it should be. Where companies might fall short is when it comes to selection. Hiring managers rush through the process of selecting the final candidate and, as a result, they don’t make good decisions. In this section on common practices, I wanted to share three activities that often take place during the selection step that could help with decision-making.

			Background Checks

			According to SHRM, more than 60 percent of employers conduct some form of background check in their hiring process. Typically, the type of background check is directly related to the position that the candidate is applying for. Reasons for the check could be for the protection of customers or employees, because the law mandates it, and to reduce theft. The most common types of background checks fall into five categories:

			 				Verifying employment history. This isn’t to talk about a candidate’s work performance (we’ll cover that in a moment). Verifying a candidate’s employment history could be a requirement for ID badges and security access.

				Education checks. These are often done at educational institutions like schools, colleges, and universities. This is to verify that someone has the degree or credentials that they claim to have.

				Criminal background checks. These might be required by law in certain industries. For example, an individual with a child endangerment conviction would not be eligible to work at a daycare school. That being said, organizations have found that offering second chances to individuals who have criminal records to be good for business and the employee. SHRM has a digital toolkit of resources to help organizations hire and develop employees with criminal backgrounds in their “Getting Talent Back to Work” portal.

				Credit checks. These could be required by law, but organizations might also conduct them for employees who will be handling money, credit card information, or have access to financial documents.

				Drug testing. Drug testing could be required by law, like in the transportation industry. It could be mandated to obtain a security badge. And in some states, drug testing helps the company secure favorable workers’ compensation rates.



			The good news is that many if not all of these background checks can be scheduled and completed online. There are vendors who will facilitate the process and provide results quickly so the candidate can be extended an offer and start work.

			Reference Checks

			This is another form of background check, but the focus is on the employee’s work performance. Typically, the company reaches out to a former supervisor, colleague, or employee to find out what it was like to work with the candidate.

			There are some advantages and challenges with reference checks. Obviously, it’s an advantage to speak with individuals who have worked with the candidate. The challenges are that many organizations forbid individuals from providing references for employees or former employees and it takes a lot of time to track people down, only to hear that they can’t say anything.

			There’s also another challenge: Logically, it would seem that if a candidate gives you the name of a reference to call, then that reference is going to say the candidate is wonderful, awesome, and only speak positive things. So why do them, right?

			It is amazing, but sometimes candidates don’t seem to be fully aware of what a reference is going to say about them (because whoa! The third type of interviewing question: the stories). We’ll just have to save those conversations for another time. Seriously though, references do often provide not-so-flattering insights.

			But there is a way to get good reference checks. New technologies offer a process by which the candidate can provide you with the email addresses of individuals who will provide a reference. They also sign a release saying that they understand what they’re doing. The technology sends the email and gathers the replies. I’ve heard from many recruiters that references are very receptive to this format, turn responses around quickly, and make more balanced comments, maybe because they’re writing them. The technology has a feature that alerts the company if references all come from the same IP address (so it can be investigated).

			If the organization is looking at both background and reference checks, the same vendor may be able to do both.

			Pre-employment Assessments

			According to the Talent Board’s “2016 Candidate Experience Research Report,” 82 percent of companies use some form of pre-employment test. While I realize that this information is from a few years ago, assessments continue to be widely used. But assessments can be tricky. A couple of years ago on HR Bartender, I interviewed Josh Millet, CEO of Criteria, a leading provider of pre-employment testing services. Millet has extensive experience in online testing services and preparation and the conversation was a nice introduction to assessments.

			Sharlyn Lauby: Josh, let’s start with a definition. What’s an “assessment”? And is it different from a “test” or an “index” or a “profile”?

			Josh Millet: An assessment for me is a structured, standardized way of gathering information on someone or evaluating them from a particular perspective. There are many types of assessments: behavioral (personality), cognitive, skills, and emotional intelligence, but based on our definition you could also describe a structured interview as an assessment.

			The words “profile” and “index” tend to be used specifically for personality assessments, whether given pre- or posthire.

			Lauby: What are the top three to four reasons that an organization would use an assessment?

			Millet: In a prehire situation, the top reason for using assessments is to make better, more informed hiring decisions that drive business outcomes such as improved productivity and reduced turnover.

			Assessments can also help reduce bias by diminishing the importance of selection techniques like résumés and unstructured interviews that tend to introduce subjectivity and unconscious bias into the hiring process. They can also help streamline the hiring process by quickly surfacing candidates more likely to succeed at the “top of the funnel.”

			In a posthire context, assessments can help organizations better understand their talent, build better teams, and foster growth and development in their team members.

			Lauby: Should organizations explain to candidates and employees why they’re using assessments?

			Millet: Absolutely. Organizations should not only explain the reasons for using assessments, but also what the assessments measure and how long they take. Having a clear understanding contributes to an enhanced candidate and employee experience.

			Lauby: Can a candidate or employee ask to see their assessment results?

			Millet: Privacy regulations in certain areas, like the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) in Europe, give the candidate the right to see any assessment results, but in the United States it is not standard for employers to share assessment results.

			Nevertheless, it is becoming increasingly common for employers and assessment providers to share some feedback with applicants, especially from personality assessments. Criteria launched such a report recently that an employer can turn on or off. When appropriate, this kind of feedback can improve the candidate and employee experience.

			Lauby: Assessments can make someone nervous. As an assessment provider, what words of confidence can you give to someone who is going to take an assessment?

			Millet: In a prehire context, assessments give everyone the chance to demonstrate their abilities in a fair and objective way. They are also typically just one of many ways in which employers get to know prospective employees and can help ensure that the fit between a candidate and employer is a good one.

			Lauby: For organizations that are considering assessments, how can a test save time in the hiring process? (Because on the surface, it might appear like it increases time to hire.)

			Millet: Especially in a time when HR departments are being asked to handle more applicants than ever with fewer resources, assessments can dramatically reduce time to hire. When an employer uses assessments at the top of the funnel they can spot talent signals in a large, undifferentiated mass of applicants. This helps them to know where to direct their energies first and can reduce the number of wasted interviews and time spent reviewing applicants who don’t meet the basic job requirements.

			Organizations that use assessments—whether it’s pre- or posthire—should have a communications plan. Candidates and employees should know what they’re taking and why they’re taking it. It will make them feel more comfortable about the process, which benefits everyone.





Measuring and Evaluating Talent Acquisition


			Of all the functions in human resources, I believe that talent acquisition is probably the one with the most possible metrics. We’re going to focus on the five to consider for starters.

			Cost-Per-Hire

			Back in 2012, SHRM worked with the American National Standards Institute (ANSI) to create a uniform standard calculation for CPH. Basically, here it is:

				CPH = (External Recruiting Costs + Internal Recruiting Costs) / Total Number of Hires for a Time Period

			 				External recruiting costs include agency fees, advertising, job fairs, college recruiting, relocation, and so on.

				Internal recruiting costs include salary and benefits for everyone involved in the recruiting process as well as recruiting software, and so on.



			The goal of calculating CPH is to provide organizations with a benchmark for their recruiting activities. Let’s say the organization is planning to open a new location next year. As a result, they will need to hire ten employees. CPH gives the company some estimate to consider when it comes to the cost of staffing the new location.

			CPH can also be a valuable number to share with hiring managers. I like to calculate CPH at the beginning of interview skills training. It’s an opportunity to put a dollar value on the cost of a hiring manager’s decision about candidates.

			The goal of calculating CPH isn’t to make it $0. I don’t know if that’s even possible. Even if you’re the greatest place to work of all time, you will still have recruiting expenses. The goal of calculating cost per hire is to make sure the cost is acceptable. Here are some examples:

			 				If the company decides that it’s going to buy a recruiting software solution because it will save the company money, how will they know the return on their investment if they don’t calculate cost per hire?

				If the company is considering recruiting process outsourcing (RPO), how will they know if outsourcing makes sense for the business?

				If you’re looking at updates to your referral program, CPH could offer some insights on how much is an acceptable “thank you.”



			These are just a few examples, but you get the point. If the organization doesn’t calculate CPH, how will they know the cost? And on a strategic level, if HR gets the buy-in of senior management to add, change, or delete components in the recruiting process, how will they sell the change (what’s the measurement of success)?

			Yield Ratios

			When we think about talent acquisition, it’s often referred to as a funnel. We start the process with a lot of applicants and ultimately end up with one employee. If the organization does any kind of high-volume recruiting, yield ratios can be helpful in managing the process.

			Let’s say we’re a call center and we hire a lot of inbound call representatives. The VP of operations has just called us and said, “We need to have 25 inbound call reps ready at the start of the quarter.” A yield ratio will give us some direction on how many applications we need to process to potentially have 25 inbound call reps ready to start work next quarter. The answer is close to 1,300.

			Now these numbers are completely fabricated (but not completely unrealistic). You see the point. Every organization has their own yield numbers. At any point in the process, you can gauge your ability to meet the goal. You had more than 1,300 people apply—great! You conducted screening interviews with 80 percent (1,040 applicants), selected 50 percent (520 applicants) for department interviews, selected 25 percent (130 applicants) for further consideration, and made offers to 50 percent (65 applicants), of whom 20 percent (13 applicants) show up to orientation, and just over 50 percent (7 applicants) complete training. That’s why if the yield shows we typically send 50 percent of our screens to the department, sending any less could mean not making the goal of 25 new hires.

			The other thing a yield ratio can do is help the organization decide what is acceptable in terms of yields. For example, you might look at the yield between orientation and completing training (50 percent) and ask if that is acceptable. Is the purpose of new hire training to weed people out or to help them succeed? Maybe that needs further investigation and possibly a change in training content.



			Figure 2.2. The Talent Acquisition Funnel

			Sourcing Effectiveness

			At the beginning of this chapter, we talked about sourcing and the need to test sources. Organizations will want to know what sources are most effective and how they are most effective. Are they effective because they produce results quickly, are cost effective, or bring the best quality? It’s rare that a source does all three.

			It’s possible to track sources in your ATS. You might want to run some reports that show

			 				What source provides the most applicant flow,

				Where most of the candidates we extend offers to come from, and

				What source provides the best quality.



			This is a good place to discuss the metric quality of hire. Many people will say that quality of hire is the best recruiting metric, and I’m not going to argue with them. Quality of hire is a great measurement, but it’s also a difficult one to calculate because the organization must decide what will determine if an employee is “quality.” Often, the data point that does it is the performance appraisal. That means that quality of hire is only going to be as good as the company’s performance review process (which we will cover in Chapter 4).

			I could completely understand why organizations might steer away from quality-of-hire measurements and focus on sourcing (“What source provides us with the people we extend job offers to?”).

			Time-to-Fill

			This is a classic talent-acquisition measurement with plenty of flexibility. Time-to-fill is traditionally the number of days from the time the job requisition is approved to the time the offer is extended (and the job is considered “filled”). A variation could be time-to-start, which would be the number of days from job requisition to the employee’s first day. Organizations could also track time-to-productivity which is from requisition to the point an employee is not considered “in training” and can work independently. Time-to-productivity is a great measurement, but it does require that the organization knows how long it takes for someone to become fully productive (which could be tough depending on the job).

			The reason time-to-fill is an important number to track is because it can help hiring managers keep their operations running smoothly while the hiring process is taking place. Here’s a rough estimate of a hiring timeline:

			This is a rough estimate, but for our example, time-to-fill is six to seven weeks. That’s a long time and it doesn’t take into consideration if the hiring manager is going on vacation or if there’s a big client project that comes due. Hiring managers need to be aware of the timeline. HR can help hiring managers plan by finding out if they need temporary staffing or a freelancer, or if the manager is going to ask their team to work overtime.

			If the hiring manager can keep the work moving, they can spend the necessary time to find the right candidate. If they start running into challenges such as employees who don’t want to work overtime or work piling up, then they will want to rush through the hiring process or settle on a less qualified candidate. That can hurt the organization, and it’s not fair to the new employee who was hired.

			Table 2.1 Sample Hiring Timeline

			 				 					 					 				 				 					 						 							Time

						 						 							Action



				 				 					 						 							0.5 week

						 						 							Requisition approved, HR and hiring manager schedule intake meeting



					 						 							1 week

						 						 							HR sources and conducts initial screening interviews



					 						 							2 weeks

						 						 							Hiring manager conducts in-depth interviews



					 						 							0.5 week

						 						 							Hiring manager and HR finalize selection process (i.e., background checks, assessments, etc.)



					 						 							0.5 week

						 						 							HR extends job offer and candidate considers offer



					 						 							2 week

						 						 							Candidate works out their notice and gets ready to start new job



				 			 			Offer Decline Rates (and Reasons)

			This is a straightforward calculation of the percentage of people who turn down your job offers, along with reasons why. Realistically, job offers will be declined. But it really shouldn’t happen often. If the number starts increasing, it could be a sign to start investigating why.

			The second aspect of this calculation is the reason why candidates decline your offer. There are many possible reasons and the goal here is to be okay with them. For example, a candidate might turn down your job offer because they found another opportunity that pays more. The organization might say, “That’s fine. We know we don’t pay at the top of the scale.” On the other hand, you might start to see a trend of candidates turning down your offer because the candidate didn’t realize they were still in the running so they went out and found another opportunity. That is something the organization could take action on by adding an automated email to candidates letting them know that the position is still open and they’re being considered.

			Ultimately, organizations must decide how they will measure talent-acquisition success and choose the measurements that will best reflect their efforts. What’s terrific about talent-acquisition measurements is that there are some proven classic metrics that still provide value if you know how to use them.





Additional Talent-Acquisition Resources


			There are so many wonderful talent books out there! It’s hard to narrow it down to a handful, but here are five that are on my bookshelf.

			Fitz-enz, Jac, and Barbara Davidson. How to Measure Human Resources Management. New York: McGraw-Hill, 2002.

			I believe that every HR professional should own this book. You don’t need a new copy and you don’t need the latest edition. When you need to calculate a number, you will be so happy that you have it.

			Capron, Laurence, and Will Mitchell. Build, Borrow, or Buy: Solving the Growth Dilemma. Boston: Harvard Business School Publishing, 2012.

			This is the foundation for the buy, build, borrow concept that I mentioned earlier. I added the bot part because, as you know, technology is everywhere.

			Block, Peter, and Janis Nowlan. Flawless Consulting: A Guide to Getting Your Expertise Used, 3rd ed. San Francisco: Jossey-Bass, 2015.

			I learned about this book when I worked at a consulting company. But it’s not about being a consultant. It’s about knowing how to consult with others. If you’re trying to build relationships in the organization, it’s a must-have.

			Sackett, Tim. The Talent Fix: A Leader’s Guide to Recruiting Great Talent. Alexandria, VA: Society for Human Resource Management, 2018.

			Sackett provides practical examples of how to build a talent-acquisition function and describes the role that talent-acquisition professionals should play in the organization. I particularly liked his unfiltered comments about the industry and what it needs to do to demonstrate its value.

			Lauby, Sharlyn. The Recruiter’s Handbook: A Complete Guide for Sourcing, Selecting, and Engaging the Best Talent. Alexandria, VA: Society for Human Resource Management, 2018.

			Forgive me for the shameless plug here, but I have to put my book on the list. While this chapter gives a great overview of talent acquisition, there is more, and The Recruiter’s Handbook is a place to get more depth.





You Don’t Want to Be the Reason That Planes Don’t Fly


			When I worked at the airline, I was asked to lead talent acquisition during the airline’s expansion. We had new aircraft arriving and we needed people to load planes, serve customers, and fly customers to their desired destination. At some point, a senior vice president told me in a meeting, “You don’t want to be the reason that planes don’t fly.” Talent acquisition is a highly visible and incredibly important part of the organization. If organizations don’t have people, they can’t do what they formed themselves to do.

			Because talent acquisition is so critical, we spend a huge amount of time in the operation of that function. In fact, I like to think of my relationship with hiring managers as a partnership or team.

			As such, organizations might want to adopt the philosophy that the people who are responsible for talent acquisition are a team and develop them in the same way that they develop other teams. Companies will often invest in team building and team development for executive teams, project teams, and so on. It’s time to start doing the same for recruiting teams.

			Recruiting teams must work together under stressful conditions. They have to brainstorm ideas, solve problems, and make decisions together. Recruiting teams are required to manage timelines, budgets, and resources. This is one of the most important teams in the organization. It’s the team that hires the people who will achieve the company’s goals.

			Many of the individuals on the recruiting team are also busy working on another important team: the onboarding team (covered in the next chapter).





OceanofPDF.com





Chapter 3


			Onboarding and Employee Engagement


			 				Why Are Onboarding and Employee Engagement Important?

				The Three Phases of Onboarding

				Ten Onboarding and Employee-Engagement Terms You Should Know

				Onboarding and Employee-Engagement Models, Theories, and Philosophies

				Legal Considerations in Onboarding and Employee Engagement

				The Role of Technology in Onboarding and Employee Engagement

				Common Practices in Onboarding and Employee Engagement

				Measuring and Evaluating Onboarding and Employee Engagement

				Additional Onboarding and Employee-Engagement Resources





Why Are Onboarding and Employee Engagement Important?


			After extending an offer to a candidate, it’s time for the organization to set the new hire up for success. That’s why onboarding and employee engagement are important. I’ve never heard an organization say that they don’t want that person they just hired to succeed. I’ve never heard them say that it’s okay if the individual we just spent weeks interviewing leaves in fewer than six months. Onboarding programs are the activity that ensures the time, energy, and resources the organization just spent in hiring someone pays off.

			In a survey of executives conducted by Korn Ferry, 98 percent said that onboarding programs are a key factor in employee retention efforts. The connection totally makes sense.

			I know there’s lots of data out there about the cost of turnover. We’ve all read the reports. The dollar amounts range from one time to three times an employee’s salary. Bottom line: turnover is expensive. It doesn’t matter if it’s one time or three times. It’s expensive. Businesspeople don’t want to incur an expense if they don’t need to. That’s money they could spend on other things. So I think it’s safe to say that organizations should be doing onboarding.

			But what exactly does that mean? SHRM defines onboarding as “the process in which new hires are integrated into the organization.” Let me add some detail where the word “process” is concerned. I like to think of onboarding as having three components: preboarding, orientation, and onboarding. Imagine it as an umbrella, where all three activities make up a larger process.

			Onboarding programs basically do two things: (1) they socialize the new hire into their role and (2) they provide the tools the individual needs to be successful. And let me clarify that, when I say new hire, I really mean new to the role. Onboarding programs should be considered when someone is new to the organization as well as when an employee is promoted or transferred to a new role.



			Figure 3.1 The Onboarding and Retention Connection





The Three Phases of Onboarding




			Figure 3.2 The Three Phases of Onboarding

			Preboarding

			Preboarding takes place after the job offer has been extended and before the person starts in their new role. The time frame could be a couple of weeks or maybe even a month. During this time, the organization can provide some welcome information to the soon-to-be new employee.

			In my opinion, many organizations don’t take full advantage of what preboarding offers. I completely understand why organizations might be reluctant. If we’re talking about an external hire, they might be wrapping things up with their soon-to-be former employer and we don’t want to bother them. The same holds true for an internal hire. We might also be dealing with the employee who is leaving, and we need to find out what they’re leaving us in terms of projects and their status.

			That being said, preboarding isn’t supposed to be overwhelming for the company or the new hire. When designed well, it provides a couple of contacts or “touchpoints” to let the new hire know that we’re thinking about them and looking forward to their arrival. It can also help answer common questions that every new hire may have.

			There’s one other reason to consider preboarding activities—ghosting. This is a new term that refers to cutting off contact with someone without giving a reason. It started in dating and relationships but has come to also include employment situations. Ghosting happens for a variety of reasons including candidates getting a better offer or a counteroffer. Preboarding could provide that touchpoint that both companies and new hires need. We can’t stop a new hire from getting another offer, but if we’re communicating with them during preboarding, maybe they’ll call us before they accept.

			Here are some things that organizations can include in their preboarding activities:

			 				Send a video from the CEO welcoming them to the company.

				Send a welcome “swag bag” with some logo items.

				Find out how they would like their name spelled out on name tags, business cards, and company email accounts.

				Introduce them to their “buddy.” (Note: We’ll talk about buddy programs later in the chapter.)

				Have their manager (and teammates) send a welcome message.

				Send an FAQ of what happens on their first day (where to park, what to wear, lunch, etc.)



			The good news is that many of these items can be prepared in advance, used multiple times, and automatically sent to the new hire via technology.

			Orientation

			Orientation is traditionally a one-time event. It ranges from a few hours to a day in length and it’s most often conducted by the HR department. Orientation programs usually happen early in a new hire’s time with the company—the first day or at least first week.

			Orientation programs are designed to accomplish a few things: (1) provide information about the company and its culture, (2) give new hires information about their employee benefits, and (3) allow new hires to complete the paperwork for payroll and compliance purposes. I’ve always thought of orientation as a time to cover all those employee-centric topics so employees can focus on their job.

			Just because orientation is a one-time event doesn’t mean it happens only one time during a person’s career. Ideally, orientation should happen each time a person either goes to a new company or takes on a new role. The length of the orientation program might change, but there’s still an orientation. For example, new employee orientation might be a full day, and new position orientation could be two hours.

			Onboarding

			Onboarding is the third (and longest) step in the process. This is the time when an employee becomes part of the organization. It’s when engagement starts. And this is why we’re covering onboarding and employee engagement in the same chapter.

			Onboarding can last several months and often up to one year. Some readers might be surprised to hear that onboarding can take so long. Here’s a personal story to illustrate why onboarding can be a long process.

			I once worked for a hotel company that had a long-standing client contract over the Passover holiday. The hotel was closed to the public. To accommodate our guests, the hotel went through the process of koshering (making kosher) our kitchens. We changed all the guest room door locks. We ordered different guest amenities. We conducted training to educate employees about the Passover holiday, so everyone understood the event and its importance to guests. Passover was a big deal to the hotel and employees talked about it all year long.

			If you got hired after Passover, you would hear about Passover for months. But it wasn’t until you experienced it firsthand that you would truly understand. Many organizations have similar annual or biannual events. It could take months and maybe up to a year for employees to see a full cycle of your business, which means it could take that long for them to see how they are connected every single day to the company.

			There are many onboarding activities, and they all revolve around three core themes. First, the new employee is learning their job. This includes training as well as being exposed to work experiences that help them gain confidence about doing the work. Employees need to see how what they do impacts other departments, coworkers, and customers. Second, the employee is building a working relationship with their new boss. Even if an employee receives a promotion and they have the same boss, it’s possible the working relationship changes. The employee and manager might talk about different topics. The manager might delegate certain tasks to the employee (and therefore, not talk about them with the same frequency). Third, the employee is building positive working relationships with others around the organization. This includes their immediate team as well as employees in other departments. Depending on the job, employees might spend more time working with others than they do their own manager. For instance, I used to work at a hotel where our payroll clerk spent more time interacting with HR than with her colleagues and manager in accounting. Ideally, each step of the onboarding process builds on the previous step.



			Figure 3.3 The Onboarding Progression

			You might be asking yourself, “Can we take a step out of the process?” I’m not going to lie. Sure, you can. But you’ll have to figure out where employees gain what’s included in the missing step. Employees that don’t feel welcome aren’t going to stay. Employees who don’t feel that organization took the time to train them aren’t going to stay. And employees who don’t feel their manager supports them (well, you get it) aren’t going to stay.

			I know when organizations hire someone, they are ready for them to start working right away. And employees want to start contributing right away too. But if you rush onboarding, then you run the risk of employees getting frustrated and leaving. And that means you will have to start all over again. It’s expensive and time consuming, and no one benefits.





Ten Onboarding and Employee-Engagement Terms You Should Know


			You might have noticed that I haven’t mentioned employee engagement much in this chapter so far, even though the chapter is titled “Onboarding and Employee Engagement.” That’s because when it comes to employee engagement, we really don’t have literal “engagement” programs. Instead, we design programs—like onboarding programs—that create engagement outcomes. There are other talent-management activities that create engagement like training, performance management, and total rewards. We’ll discuss those in later chapters. In the meantime, these are the terms organizations should discuss when designing onboarding and employee engagement programs. In some cases, to make sure that the term is included (like equity and belonging) and in other cases, to make sure that it’s not (for example, covering).

			Employee Engagement

			SHRM defines employee engagement as the level of an employee’s commitment and connection to the organization. Engagement is considered a key driver for business success. The better employee engagement, the better organizations are at retaining talent, maintaining customer loyalty, and improving financial performance.

			Productivity

			The definition of productivity is to produce something. Obvious, yes, I know. However, the implication with productivity is to produce something efficiently, meaning without a lot of waste, while at the same time, produce something of value (i.e., in this case, value is something the organization holds in importance). Productivity isn’t simply producing anything. It’s producing something of value with the fewest resources.

			Diversity

			I’m including diversity here because diversity is a key driver of engagement. SHRM defines diversity as “the collective mixture of differences and similarities that includes, for example, individual and organizational characteristics, values, beliefs, experiences, backgrounds, preferences, and behaviors.”

			Inclusion

			You might have heard the Verna Myers quotation, “Diversity is being invited to the party. Inclusion is being asked to dance.” SHRM describes inclusion as “the extent to which each person in an organization feels welcomed, respected, supported, and valued as a team member.” It requires people from diverse background to effectively work together.

			Equity

			Equality and equity are two different things. Equality is focused on giving everyone the same thing. SHRM defines equity as identifying and working to eliminate barriers to fair treatment. Equity is about making sure that systems are in place to provide “fair treatment in access, opportunity, and advancement for all.”

			Belonging

			In an article on the SHRM blog, author Steven Huang defines belonging as “the feeling of security and support when there is a sense of acceptance, inclusion, and identity for a member of a certain group or place.” Diversity, inclusion, equity, and belonging are all interrelated. Huang’s article mentions that belonging is a strong driver of employee engagement.

			Covering

			The first time I heard the word covering was in a presentation from learning and development expert Josh Bersin about diversity and inclusion. Covering happens when employees feel they need to downplay or “cover” who they are to have others accept them. Sometimes, it’s associated with taking assimilation too far.

			Assimilation

			In the context of business, assimilation often refers to educating an employee on organizational culture and how employees interact with each other. Organizations should be aware that some efforts to assimilate employees can be detrimental to employees because they could be viewed as asking an employee to cover up who they are (see the prior definition for covering).

			Rewards

			BambooHR does a great job of defining employee rewards. Typically, rewards are tangible gifts. They are transactional and tied to goals. Examples of rewards include gift cards, company logo items, and trophies. Reward programs are often designed and implemented to increase employee engagement.

			Recognition

			Often used in the same sentence with rewards, recognition is usually considered more relational and can happen more in the moment. Think of recognition as the words people use to acknowledge good work. Recognition by itself isn’t expensive; in fact, it can often be free. Many organizations bring recognition and rewards together to verbally thank an employee for doing a good job and then give them a gift of appreciation.





Onboarding and Employee-Engagement Models, Theories, and Philosophies


			When I think of onboarding and employee engagement, I immediately think of Maslow’s hierarchy of needs. Developed by American psychologist Abraham Maslow, the hierarchy represents human desire to self-actualize and the needs necessary to achieve it. Over time, Maslow’s hierarchy has been adapted to suit the workplace, with the ultimate goal being employee engagement (i.e., having challenging work).

			Maslow’s theory basically says that for individuals to move up the hierarchy, they need their current needs to be met. So, if we want employees to feel safe and secure in their job, then we need to take care of pay and benefit matters. And if we want employees to feel like they’re part of the team, then they need to feel safe and secure in their job. Maslow’s theory also explains why employees who don’t feel like they’re being paid fairly are disengaged (more on that later).

			Applying Maslow’s theory to the concept of onboarding and employee engagement, we can start with the notion that many employees accept the job offer for the pay and benefits. The realist in me says that this isn’t far fetched. It explains why, when a new hire starts, they immediately want to know when they’re going to get paid and when their benefits begin. This is also a good reason to have preboarding and orientation components to onboarding. They can immediately inform employees about when they will learn about pay and be able to sign up for benefits.

			Hopefully, after orientation, the organization has met the employee’s initial needs of pay and benefits. The employee is ready to move on to safety and security. These topics are often covered during onboarding. Employees typically receive anti-harassment and anti-violence training. They learn about computer security and workplace safety.

			Now that the employee feels safe and secure, they can focus on building positive working relationships and contributing to the team. Diversity, inclusion, equity, and belonging are key drivers toward an employee feeling welcome and respected. If an employee is comfortable being themselves, I’d like to believe it will show in their work. And the organization will recognize their efforts, not only with rewards but with positions that have greater challenges. This hierarchical theory allows the employee to become engaged.



			Figure 3.4 The Employee’s Hierarchy of Needs

			As a side note, if there’s one thing that Maslow’s model doesn’t do is account for organizational movement. I can imagine an employee who is engaged getting a promotion or transfer and starting at the bottom with those basic needs again. I’m not saying they would stay there very long, but any time they change positions an employee goes through a phase of asking themselves if they made the right decision. Having an internal onboarding process for existing employees could confirm for the employee that they did make the right decision.





Legal Considerations in Onboarding and Employee Engagement


			Here are a few legal concepts and laws that might come up in the context of welcoming and working with employees. Also keep in mind that many of the legal concepts we covered in Chapter 2 (Talent Acquisition) still apply.

			 				Employee and labor relations deals with the activities that take place between the organization and employees regarding terms and conditions of employment. From the employee relations side, this could involve developing workplace policies, procedures, handbooks, and guidelines. On the labor relations side, it might also include negotiating a collective bargaining agreement (CBA) and maintaining working relations with a third party (i.e., union).

				Employment Practice Liability Insurance (EPLI) is a type of insurance designed to protect against expenses and losses incurred in litigating and settlement of wrongful employment practices claims. It applies against lawsuits such as discrimination, breach of contract, wrongful discharge, and so on. Hopefully, an organization doesn’t have to use their EPLI, but it might be worthwhile to weigh the pros and cons of purchasing it.

				The Occupational Safety and Health Act (OSH Act) says that employers have an obligation to provide employees a workplace that is free from hazards that are likely to cause death or serious physical harm. It created the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) to oversee administration and compliance in this area. The OSH Act provides guidance on emergency exits, noise exposure, hazardous materials, personal protective equipment, confined space, materials handling and storage, and bloodborne pathogens (just to name some examples).

				The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) was enacted to provide national standards for electronic healthcare transactions and national identifiers for providers and employers. Basically, the law explains how an employee’s personally identifiable medical data should be stored and maintained so it’s protected from cyber fraud and theft.

				The Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act (GINA) prohibits discrimination based on genetic information. This law says that it’s illegal to discriminate against someone based on their genetic tests and the genetic tests of family members. Examples of potential discrimination under GINA include denying an employee a promotion after learning they are caregiving for a parent with Huntington’s disease1 or firing an employee after they are diagnosed with colon cancer.





The Role of Technology in Onboarding and Employee Engagement


			Good news! Onboarding technology does exist. The technology helps organizations and employees achieve a shared goal—to have the employee quickly and efficiently become a member of the team.

			Today’s onboarding technology solutions provide consistent answers to common questions, such as key dates for benefits enrollment and payroll FAQs, so employees can focus on their work. They ensure that workflows and processes happen at the same time for every new hire, so each employee gets computer access, security badges, and business cards (if companies still use them) on the right day at the right time.

			Organizations can integrate their onboarding solutions with a recruiting solution to make the transition from candidate to employee seamless. Onboarding solutions can also integrate with performance and learning solutions (which we will get to in Chapter 6, Learning and Development) so employees can start focusing on their future with the organization. Best of all, they are customizable, so the organization’s employment brand remains front and center.



			Figure 3.5 Talent Acquisition Tech Stack

			Building a Perfect Tech Stack

			Since we discussed talent acquisition technologies in the last chapter and we’re talking about onboarding technologies in this one, it’s a perfect moment to discuss building a tech stack. A tech stack is a grouping of technology services that are “stacked” together to create the best, most effective, and most efficient process possible. For example, a traditional talent-acquisition tech stack might look like Figure 3.5.

			Today we have more tech options, and organizations need to be able to build a tech stack that works and accomplishes our goals. If the organization has a bad talent-acquisition process and then buys a technology solution, they will still have a bad process. Building a tech stack is about bringing together the right technologies to accomplish the goal, which could be different for every organization.

			If you’re looking to build a tech stack as part of your talent acquisition (or overall technology strategy), here are a few things to keep in mind:

			 				Assess your current technology. Is the organization using all the features it offers?

				Identify your future technology needs. For example, how fast does the system need to process data? And don’t say it has to be the fastest, because sometimes that’s simply not true.

				Agree on technology success metrics. How will you know if the tech is performing the way it should be?

				Train users on how the system works. And create a communications system to keep them informed of updates and changes.



			Figure 3.6 shows what a new talent acquisition tech stack might look like. Notice this is a small sampling of what a new tech stack could include. There are other components like talent intelligence, interview scheduling, and others that aren’t mentioned here.



			Figure 3.6 New Talent Tech Stack

			In fact, that was the other thing I wanted to add about tech stacks. It’s possible that there are technologies that we should consider that we’re not even aware of right now. On one hand, that’s very exciting, but on the other hand, it can be daunting.

			The good news is that Stacey Harris, chief research officer and managing partner of Sapient Insights Group, wrote a book that might help identify the right components for the tech stack your building. The book is called Introduction to HR Technologies: Understand How to Use Technology to Improve Performance and Processes. It provides great data regarding what types of technologies exist and the information you can get from them. I could see reading the book before the HR Technology Conference & Expo or the SHRM Annual Conference as a way to plan which vendors to visit in the expo hall who will help you formulate your perfect tech stack.

			Your HR Technology Implementation Checklist

			I can tell you about all the specific onboarding technologies that exist and the basic premise of what they do. But there’s a point when you’re going to have to test drive these solutions for yourself and decide what’s best for your organization.

			However, once you do that, you need to have an implementation plan. So I think this might be a good time to talk about technology implementation strategies. A few years ago, I attended SilkRoad Technology’s annual user conference, and one of their customers presented a great list of takeaways for a successful onboarding technology implementation. Personally, I think it’s an outstanding checklist for any type of technology implementation:

			 				Remember that it’s a company project. While an onboarding technology might be an HR system, it’s not an HR project. Every department is impacted by the change—especially IT and payroll. If you don’t include all the stakeholders, they will think it’s an HR project and an HR system. The organizational support will not materialize.

				Separate the process from the technology. During the implementation, it’s possible that organizations might realize they not only needed a technology solution, but they need to streamline their hiring and onboarding processes to truly gain efficiencies and achieve cost savings.

				Select the right project team. Put the right people with the right skills on the project team. Make sure they’re dedicated to the project.

				Find passionate project sponsors. Having a good project team is important, but every successful implementation needs project sponsors. These individuals aren’t necessarily working on the project every day, but they have influence and can use their positional power when appropriate to keep the implementation on a smooth track.

				Plan for change. While everyone might be excited about this change, it’s still change, and it needs to be managed. Build time for changes into the project timeline. That way you don’t have to choose between the process and the deadline.

				Develop a communication plan. The project team deals with the project every day—users don’t. It’s important to communicate often and effectively so users will remember information and updates. Repeat messages if necessary.

				Realize mistakes will happen. Implementations are not a “fake it until you make it” moment. Organizations might run into hiccups with things like initial user training sessions taking longer than expected because you didn’t allocate enough time for questions. The answer? Instead of letting users figure it out on their own, the HR team should revamp user training. Then the new program will have greater participant interaction and retention.

				Aim for user adoption and feedback. Speaking of users, organizations need to realize the goal is for people to use the system. If they don’t, the project is a failure. Solicit constant feedback from users to personalize the system. There could be times when a change isn’t possible because of compliance, but at least the company is able to talk through the situation.

				Celebrate your success. This type of project takes a lot of hard work and there will be challenges. Give the project team and users a chance to celebrate their successes. And plan a structured debrief in case you do a similar project again. Keep in mind you could still be referring to project plans and notes up to two years after implementation.

				Continue the work. Once implementation is over, the work doesn’t end. System maintenance will look different, but it still exists. Remember to dedicate personnel and resources to support the system.



			While system implementations are a lot of hard work, all the challenges are worth it. There will be a time when even the late adopters will say, “I never want to go back to the old way.”

			Time and Attendance Systems

			This form of technology digitizes the process of tracking when employees start and end their work shifts. On a basic level, it’s a digital time clock. And the information is used to calculate an employee’s pay, which is fantastic because nobody really wants to do all of that manually.

			In addition, time and attendance systems can reduce instances of what is termed “time theft.” This occurs when employees are paid for time at work when they weren’t actually there working. According to Quickbooks, time and wage theft costs US businesses more than $10 billion a year.

			Time and attendance systems have benefitted from the growth in mobile and wearable technologies (i.e., smart watches). Employees are able to check in or out using their wearable devices. They can also request time off or agree to a shift trade with another employee using their smartphones. Then, managers can approve time off requests or shift trades via mobile devices. Managers can also view real-time labor reports on a smartphone or tablet.

			AI has added an additional level of smartness to time and attendance technologies. When combined with AI, time and attendance technologies can “approve” time-off requests because they know the manager would anyway, based on previous data.2

			But that’s really only the beginning of what a time and attendance system can do. The reason that time and attendance systems have become so important to businesses is because of the data they accumulate and the insights that managers can glean in real time, a process often referred to as workforce management.

			Workforce management helps organizations optimize employee productivity using employee data, with time and attendance data being a huge part of it. Workforce management is the practice of using data to help organizations schedule employees at the right times, forecast labor expenses, and budget revenues. While time and attendance systems help the organization manage the daily operation, it’s the connection to workforce management that elevates it to a strategic level.

			Employee Opinion, Satisfaction, and Engagement Surveys

			The great news about employee surveys is that there are software programs that will help the organization construct the survey questions and track progress over time. But I believe for the survey process to work well, it’s still important to understand the concept of surveys.

			A survey is an instrument or tool used to gather information. When it comes to employees, surveys can allow us to understand what employees are thinking and feeling about their work experience. We talked about the different survey methods in Chapter 2 (Talent Acquisition): in person, observation, and email. In this case, our focus is on online surveys.

			While the terms are often used interchangeably, opinion surveys are different from satisfaction surveys which are different from engagement surveys. Opinion surveys ask employees their opinion of something, such as a benefit or program. Satisfaction surveys are focused on the employee’s satisfaction with management and the company. Engagement surveys ask questions about the employee’s engagement with their work. Ideally, an employee survey will probably have questions that fall into all of these categories.

			Organizations use surveys throughout the employee life cycle to find out about their experience. When it specifically applies to onboarding, organizations might survey employees about two things:

			 				Candidate experience. Many organizations have started asking new hires about their hiring experience while it’s still fresh in their minds. This allows the organization to gather data and possibly enhance the candidate experience.

				New hire check-ins. It’s not a full-blown employee survey, but organizations will send new hires two to three questions during their introductory period with the company to “check in” and see how they’re doing.



			A valuable feature of survey technology is the option for respondents to remain anonymous. For example, in the cases of both candidate experience and new hire check-in surveys, the surveys can be completed anonymously to collect more direct feedback from new employees who might be reluctant to offer criticism.

			Surveys can provide organizations valuable information to help the organization improve employee engagement and the overall employee experience. But surveys can also be detrimental if organizations do not act on the information they receive. One of the worst things an organization can do is survey employees and then do nothing. If your company isn’t prepared to hear the feedback and react to it, don’t fake it by asking people their opinion. This doesn’t just apply to employee surveys but any kind of survey.

			If you’re interested in soliciting feedback—by all means, go for it. People love being asked and are usually more than willing to give you their two cents, five cents, and in some cases a whole dollar! There are some things to keep in mind when you’re asking for feedback:

			 				Think about the audience carefully. This is one of the most important decisions in a survey process. If you pick the wrong audience, the results will be doomed before the first question is asked. Carefully weigh if you need to ask the whole company or just a handful of folks. Also, examine the reverse. Should you survey just a sampling or let everyone participate? Needless to say, it’s equally important not to manipulate the audience—as in only picking people who will answer a certain way. The real value lies in honest feedback.

				Make sure your audience can answer the question. You run the risk of getting bad information if you ask people for their opinion and they don’t understand your goals. Example: You ask a group of people to help you select a location for your next sales meeting. If the audience doesn’t understand the goals of the event (team building, sales training, strategic planning), they aren’t equipped with the information to provide good feedback.

				Constructing a survey correctly is another key component to success. If you ask the wrong questions, you run the risk of getting funky answers that you don’t know how to react to. Only ask what you can control. For example, I’ve never understood why companies survey employees on whether they feel they get paid enough. Seriously, I’ve rarely heard an employee say, “I make plenty of money, no merit increase necessary.” Of course, the survey results always show that employees want more money, and management somehow seemed shocked at this result.

				Don’t ask conflicting questions. A while back, I participated in a product survey. Several questions were dedicated to the cost of the product. You know, things like, “Does the product cost too much?” Then there was a whole section dedicated to what enhancements you might want. I’d love to see the results of this survey. What happens if people say the product costs too much and then say there are a bunch of enhancements they want? Doesn’t that basically set the organization up for failure? They can never satisfy either response without alienating the other.

				Make it short. Survey fatigue is a real thing. I feel like I can speak for a majority in saying no one wants to answer fifty questions in one sitting. I understand the organization wants feedback. It might be necessary to prioritize or stagger distribution. Maybe conducting a short email survey initially then an in-depth focus group will provide the same good information. Keep the questions to a minimum to encourage participation.

				Take survey participants through the right series of questions. For example, let’s say you’re surveying a group of people about where to hold the company picnic. As part of that survey, you want to ask people if they attended last year’s picnic (seems logical). But if they didn’t, don’t ask them to comment on last year’s event. Otherwise, they’re giving you an opinion about something they didn’t attend. I know this is a no-brainer, right? But just recently, I got a survey from a professional association that did just that.



			Employee surveys are a powerful tool to solicit information and encourage participation. However, a poorly constructed survey can do more harm than good. Take the time to clearly establish survey objectives and craft a well-thought-out plan. That’s the only path to ensure the success of a survey.

			Bring Your Own Device

			The technologies we’ve talked about so far are ones that would be used by human resources to create, monitor, and maintain the onboarding experience. Bring your own device (BYOD) is a policy that expands the entire organization. It’s when the organization allows employees to use their own equipment to do their work. BYOD policies benefit both the organization and the employee.

			With BYOD policies, organizations don’t have the expense of buying every employee equipment. That’s not to say they won’t occasionally have to purchase technology, but the expense would be less. Organizations also don’t have as great an expense when it comes to technology training. BYOD implies that employees know how to use the equipment that they have.

			Employees benefit because they already know and are comfortable with their equipment. It helps with their productivity. And they don’t end up in the situation where they must carry twice as much technology. I’m sure you’ve seen individuals with two phones or two laptops.

			So, BYOD policies can help make employees productive faster, which is one of the key goals in onboarding. And it can contribute to employee engagement because they are comfortable with the equipment they’re using. This isn’t to say that BYOD policies shouldn’t be carefully considered. Here are five things to discuss when evaluating the implementation of a BYOD policy:

			 				Ownership. From a company perspective, it sounds so wonderful to have employees own their equipment. But it also raises some questions about who is financially responsible for equipment maintenance and what happens if the equipment is lost or stolen. Another consideration if employees will be expected to use their own equipment is defining what would be considered reimbursable and nonreimbursable expenses when it comes to home wireless routers, apps, and so on.

				Compatibility. The great part of allowing employees to use their own equipment is they know how to use it. This translates into greater productivity. The challenge internally becomes how to make sure all these different devices are compatible with existing company systems. Businesses might not be gaining any advantages if they must create lots of workarounds to accommodate different devices.

				Network access. Employees need to know what information they can access and from where. There will be information that’s acceptable to access on public Wi-Fi and other data that should not.

				Security. Training should be conducted to remind employees about confidential and proprietary information. Maybe certain types of work cannot be done in public places, such as coffee shops and airports. Don’t forget basic technology security like how to create good passwords.

				Terms and agreements. Outlining the procedure for an employee resignation, termination, or layoff on the front end can avoid confusion and misunderstandings later. If employees violate the guidelines, will any type of disciplinary action be issued? Or will this policy be considered a benefit of sorts with the possibility of being revoked if not followed properly?



			Any type of technology policy should be driven by your corporate culture. There are lots of right answers when it comes to using technology devices. Discussing the options will create a better outcome.

			I know in human resources we are often accused of creating too many policies. But giving employees some valuable guidance on the best way to use their technology will help both the employee and the company. This is one of those times when it’s best to share what should be done versus what not to do.





Common Practices in Onboarding and Employee Engagement


			SHRM offers several resources to help HR professionals create more inclusive workplaces and better employee engagement. In 2020, SHRM launched the Together Forward @Work initiative to encourage more open dialogue about equity in the workplace. In addition to information for business leaders and HR professionals, the site offers members a “DE&I Toolkit” for download. The toolkit has conversation starter cards and an inclusion playbook.

			The SHRM Foundation is a 501(c)(3) nonprofit affiliate of SHRM. Its mission is to provide research and education on topics of interest to human resources professionals. The SHRM Foundation offers a Veterans at Work Certificate program which is completely free and open to all. The objectives of this self-paced program are to help HR pros and business leaders create strategies to attract, hire, retain, and develop veterans within our organizations. The SHRM Foundation also offers resources for Employing Abilities @Work, part of SHRM’s commitment to offer education for HR professionals about managing the employment life cycle for individuals with disabilities.

			Buddy Programs

			A reasonably new activity in onboarding is the addition of buddy programs. I think on some level buddy programs have always existed, but now organizations are looking to formalize them and draw some tangible results.

			A buddy program is designed to be an extension of the overall onboarding process. An onboarding “buddy” helps the new hire feel welcome and assists with the socialization process. It’s important to note that a buddy program isn’t a substitute for company training or proper management.

			Buddy programs can be used for new hires as well as promotions or transfers. Any time an individual is being onboarded, there’s an opportunity for a buddy program. Here are a few benefits of onboarding buddy programs:

			 				New hires need to know more people than just their boss and HR. In a typical hiring scenario, a candidate meets human resources and the hiring manager. On day one, those are the two people they know. But let’s face it, that’s not enough. Organizations might be reluctant to add more people to the hiring process because it will slow things down. And the goal is to reduce time to hire. So, a buddy program can help new hires meet their colleagues.

				Companies have unwritten rules that new hires should learn. Every single organization has a few unwritten rules and untold stories. It’s usually information that HR and management don’t make a point of sharing. But new hires need to know the information. An onboarding buddy knows those stories and can share them informally with new hires. They can help new hires maneuver the unwritten “landmines.” The last thing anyone wants is for new hires to learn the unspoken rules by making mistakes and having to live the consequences.

				Having friends at work increases engagement and retention. Employees who have a close friend at work are seven times more likely to be engaged in their jobs according to research from Gallup. By contrast, those without work friends only have a one in twelve chance of engagement, and we all know that engagement leads to retention. While buddy programs aren’t a guarantee that employees will become best buddies forever, the organization does need to create situations where new employees can start to assimilate and make friends.



			As much as we would like, orientation doesn’t cover everything. Some things will be learned informally on the job. An onboarding buddy program can be designed to specifically cover those things that new hires need to know but don’t need to know on day one. Onboarding buddy programs can build camaraderie and convey information that helps new hires get set up for success.

			Culture Immersion Programs

			One of the core topics in any orientation and onboarding program is company culture. We want candidates to see the company culture before they apply and during the hiring process so they know if they’re a good fit. And we want them to fully immerse in the culture once they arrive.

			I’m using the word “immerse” here because some organizations are taking the challenge literally and creating cultural immersion programs. For example, Cirrus Logic, based in Austin, Texas, has a culture camp they call “School of Cirrus Rocks.” In an article for Austin Woman Magazine, Vice President and Chief Culture Offices Jo-Dee Benson explained the theme: “We make integrative circuits for audio applications, and a lot of our employees are musicians. It’s a theme that has really evolved and resonated with our organization.”

			Benson started with Cirrus Logic in 1995 as their director of marketing and communications and expanded her role to vice president of human resources in 2005. At the time, the company was facing challenges attracting, engaging, and retaining talent. She knew the company needed to do something really different and used her marketing savvy to develop a “culture camp”—think of it as a mashup between Jack Black’s School of Rock and Garrison Keillor’s Prairie Home Companion.

			Prior to the session, participants are asked to take pictures about what inspires them around Cirrus. On the day of the program, participants meet at a local bar. The first half of the day, participants learn about storytelling. Why? Because storytelling is how employees share the company’s mission, vision, and values.

			During the second half of the day, participants break into groups and are tasked with pulling their images together into a story. Then, with the help of local musicians, music is added. Basically, employees create a story in the form of a song about working at the company. The groups perform their song karaoke style in the best place—a local bar with local musicians and their coworkers cheering them on.

			While every company isn’t going to create a School of Rock–themed culture camp, there were several takeaways that can be applied to any company culture program:

			 				Commitment. It is obvious that Cirrus Logic is “all in” with this program when it comes to resources (i.e., people and budget.) There’s a lot of people and equipment involved to produce the program, so it’s only held a handful of times each year. But when it happens, they do it right. Organizations that are committed to a culture camp need to be fully committed.

				Listening. Cirrus Logic felt it was important for new hires to tell the company why Cirrus is a great place to work, versus the other way around. Organizations need to listen to their employees and understand what employees love about the company. It will tell them what to keep and what to share with candidates.

				Reinforcement. The program itself reinforces Cirrus organizational values like continuous improvement (accountability), innovation (investment to solve problems), integrity, communication, and job satisfaction. Any organizational program should align with company values, whatever those specific values are.

				Recognition. The Cirrus Logic program works hard to make participants feel special. First, they ask participants not to disclose what happens in the School of Cirrus Rocks to other employees. Yes, participants have some idea, but they want people to enjoy the surprise. And Cirrus also gives participants a very cool memento to remember their experience—a miniature guitar.

				Communication. I mentioned earlier that the first part of the session focuses on storytelling, the idea being that telling good stories helps your career. It’s the “story” that gets you on the meeting agenda so you can sell your ideas to others. For example, organizations can create an activity for employees to tell their culture story in six words (like the Hemingway six-word story activity3).

				Teamwork. Whenever you do something a little scary, something that takes you outside your comfort zone (like creating a song and singing it with your coworkers) you will remember it forever. This culture immersion camp helps bond people with each other and with the company. Trust me, participants will remember the people they went to camp with.



			What Cirrus Logic does in their culture camp works for them and they’re getting a return on their investment that justifies the program. For other organizations, it’s not about duplicating that program. It’s about making sure that employees understand your company culture so much that they can tell you about it (rather than being told).

			Employee Resource Groups

			Many organizations want to bring DE&I programs into their company. But they’re struggling trying to find a way that’s actionable and practical, especially when the organization doesn’t feel like they have a lot of resources. It’s not that they don’t feel DE&I is important, but they simply can’t get everything done.

			One way organizations can create something that works with limited resources is through employee resource groups (ERGs). Sometimes they are referred to as employee affinity groups or diversity networks. In my podcast, The HR Bartender Show, I had the opportunity to speak with diversity and inclusion expert Jarrod Harden about his experiences with creating and maintaining ERGs. In the podcast, he mentions that some of the groups he’s seen include communities for Black employees, veterans, cancer survivors and cancer caregivers, individuals with disabilities, LGBTQ+ employees, the Latinx population, an interfaith group, and the Asian community. During our conversation, I remember him sharing a story about how he used to run employee orientation at a former company. The story that he always gave the company about resource groups was that he was hired into the company as a Black man. In his department, he felt welcome. The company was great to him, but he was the still the only Black person on the team. So when he rode the elevator, if he saw somebody else who was Black, he immediately wanted to form some kind of bond because there are things about you that you share.

			That’s one of the reasons why building community with employee resource groups is so key. ERGs can do other things too. Organizations can celebrate identities with special days, like Black History Month, Pride Month, or Women’s History Month. You can celebrate and use those groups to talk about or demonstrate your company’s position on any given topic or how you engage with certain groups of people.

			As organizations think about the post-onboarding experience and employee engagement, ERGs can be a low-cost activity to help employees stay connected to the organization through shared communities.

			Stay Interviews

			A stay interview is a structured interview design to elicit the reasons that employees stay with a company or the conditions that might cause them to leave. They can be a valuable way to engage and retain employees.

			During an Association for Talent Development’s (ATD) International Conference and Expo, I had the chance to hear Dr. Beverly Kaye discuss her book Hello Stay Interviews, Goodbye Talent Loss, which talks about the dynamics of stay interviews. In her book, Kaye focuses on providing managers with practical ideas they can use to conduct stay interviews with their employees. You can find sample stay interview questions on the SHRM website similar to the following:

			 				What was something your last organization did well that we don’t do?

				Is the job turning out to be what you thought it would be? How so? How not?

				What did your past job offer that you feel is missing in this one?



			While stay interviews can provide tremendous potential for the organization, there are a few obstacles and possible ways to address them. First, organizations should remember that one of the biggest challenges to doing stay interviews is having an employee suggest something that you know the company won’t consider. Please don’t do the interviews if you’re not prepared to listen. Like with all forms of feedback, the absolute worst thing you can do is ask someone for their feedback and not do anything with the information. Kaye recommends a four-step approach for handling employee responses that cannot be accommodated:

			 				Acknowledge. Listen to the employee and acknowledge what they are saying.

				Truth. Tell the employee that their request isn’t a viable option.

				Care. Express a sincere concern to work with the employee.

				Ask. Find out if there is another option that might be satisfactory.



			Another objection to stay interviews might involve time. Some HR pros or managers might say they don’t have time to do stay interviews—“I’m overworked, underpaid, and stressed out.” To that, I have a couple of responses: (1) Don’t forget recruiters and managers are people too. If the company is serious about retaining talent, they should conduct stay interviews at every level of the organization. That includes the recruiting, HR, and management team. (2) If people don’t have time to conduct stay interviews, then chances are they don’t have time to deal with an employee resigning, hiring their replacement, and training them. Stay interviews will definitely take less time.

			Objections behind us, it’s important to find time to conduct a meaningful stay interview. While it’s ideal to conduct stay interviews in person, Kaye suggests that video conferencing can be an effective means to conduct stay interviews with remote employees. It gives the manager an opportunity to pick up cues from gestures and facial expressions.

			Conducting a stay interview is not a guarantee that the employee will stay, but the company will have learned something along the way. To quote the legendary singer-songwriter-guitarist B. B. King, “The beautiful thing about learning is nobody can take it away from you.”





Measuring and Evaluating Onboarding and Employee Engagement


			How an organization measures onboarding will be driven primarily by the reason they conduct onboarding. For example, if the organization believes onboarding is the key to unlocking productivity, then productivity becomes the measurement. If they feel that onboarding helps with engagement and retention, then those are the measurements. Onboarding does a lot—and that’s a good thing—but the organization will want to measure what makes the most business sense for them.

			Orientation Completion Percentage

			Orientation completion percentage is simply the number of people that complete orientation within the recommended timeline. An organization might tell hiring managers that new hires need to attend orientation within two weeks of their start date. HR can look at orientation attendance records to see that 80 percent of new hires complete orientation within that time frame.

			HR might want to monitor this number for a few reasons. First, employees who do not attend orientation might not complete all the necessary paperwork for payroll and benefits. Second, they miss out on the conversation about the company and its mission, vision, and values. Lastly, the employee doesn’t get the benefit of meeting others and building a sense of camaraderie.

			One of the reasons that employees don’t attend orientation during the recommended timeline could be the manager simply didn’t schedule them; another reason could be the HR department isn’t conducting orientation with regular frequency. So, when looking at the orientation completion percentage, HR has the opportunity to determine the root cause and take the necessary action.

			Time-to-Productivity

			Time-to-productivity is an indicator of how long it takes for an employee to become fully productive. I won’t sugarcoat it; this is a difficult metric to calculate because the organization must agree on what full productivity looks like.

			I used to work in the hospitality industry and time-to-productivity was a relatively easy metric to calculate for room attendants. We knew exactly how long it should take for a room attendant to clean X number of guest rooms with minimal quality errors. However, determining full productivity for the HR coordinator was different because the job responsibilities were varied.

			Just because a metric is difficult to calculate doesn’t mean we shouldn’t calculate it. What could make some sense is calculating time-to-productivity for some positions and not others. It could also make sense to define “fully productive” as the moment in time when an employee meets certain milestones in their performance. HR and the hiring manager could look at a job description and say, “When the employee is able to do these four to five things, they’re fully productive,” even if there are job responsibilities that the employee hasn’t fully mastered.

			The reason that time-to-productivity is a good metric is because onboarding programs help employees become productive. A good time-to-productivity number can signal an effective onboarding program, and conversely, the time-to-productivity number creeping up can signal that it might be time to look at processes and make adjustments.

			Absenteeism Numbers

			Absenteeism numbers could signal challenges with employee engagement. Logically, engaged employees should want to be at work. They like what they do. So, if the organization starts to experience an increase in unplanned absences, it could be worth investigating. Granted, sometimes the organization just has a whole group of people that get sick and need to take off, but the organization will want to investigate the matter.

			Absenteeism costs organizations in terms of productivity and employee morale. According to the Gallup-Sharecare Well-Being Index, the annual cost of absenteeism can be in the billions.

			Employee Net Promoter Score

			Employee Net Promoter Score (eNPS) is an engagement-related metric, like the index Net Promoter Score (NPS) that measures the likeliness of customers recommending the company’s products or services. Think of it as “refer-ability.” The reason organizations use NPS as a business metric is because they can see a clear line of sight between it and business success. The more referrals the company receives, the more business they get, and the more profitable they become.

			Now take the NPS concept and apply it to employee engagement. Employee Net Promoter Score (eNPS) is an index that measures the likelihood that an employee would refer candidates or customers to the company. The logic is similar: the better the organization is as an employer, the more employees are engaged and satisfied with their work, and the more people they will recommend.

			eNPS is an interesting metric because of its connection to marketing and it’s worth paying attention to for three reasons:

			 				It’s a familiar business term. The SHRM Body of Applied Skills and Knowledge™ (BASK™) includes business acumen as a key skill for HR professionals. We’ve heard it before—HR pros need to speak the language of business. NPS is the language of business. So, let’s use it to talk about engagement in a business context. For organizations focused on addressing employee engagement, making a connection between NPS and eNPS could help create buy-in and it could bring agreement among the management team about how to address the issue.

				It’s measurable. Organizations measure their NPS on a regular basis, like profit and loss statements. The same can be done with eNPS. Today’s technology allows organizations to regularly take a pulse on the workforce, in real time. In addition, organizations can use other metrics—like employee referrals—as a visible metric that the company’s eNPS is thriving. Chances are organizations are already tracking some referral metrics, so this becomes a good secondary barometer that the eNPS is accurate. It can also send a flag that the eNPS is in trouble if referral activity declines.

				It aligns with the company. I don’t know of a single organization that doesn’t want happy employees and referrals. Even if you’re a nonprofit entity or public organization, you still want satisfied employees and candidate referrals. Having a healthy referral mechanism benefits the bottom line. That’s why NPS and eNPS matter.



			Many organizations tell employees that “everyone is a part of the sales department” or “everyone is a part of the recruiting team.” If that’s true, then NPS and eNPS are key components in organizational culture and strategy. Organizations cannot rely on everyone to get things done and ignore employee engagement.

			Quality of Hire

			Quality of hire measures the organization’s perception of the new hire. Basically, it answers the question, “Is the new hire doing a good job?” Like time-to-productivity, quality of hire can be difficult to measure because the organization must agree on what will determine “quality” of hire. In many cases, the organization might look at performance ratings at the end of a new hire’s introductory period or at six months.

			Quality of hire is a good metric because it can not only offer some insights into the effectiveness of the talent-acquisition process but how well the new hire has engaged with the organization. It can also be filtered by department or division to offer more granular insights. One area of the organization could have a better quality of hire than another.

			While differences in quality of hire by department could signal cause for concern, it could also be a moment of opportunity. It’s possible that one department has been doing an activity during onboarding that the whole organization should know about (and adopt).





Additional Onboarding and Employee-Engagement Resources


			I must admit there aren’t that many books specifically dedicated to onboarding. I’ve mentioned a couple here. There are lots of books about creating engaged workforces and I’ve included a few of my favorites, specifically because they each offer a different take on engagement.

			Stein, Mark A., and Lilith Christiansen. Successful Onboarding: A Strategy to Unlock Hidden Value Within Your Organization. New York: McGraw-Hill, 2010.

			This book provides a high-level overview of the pillars and essential components for successful onboarding programs. It addresses not only making sure that employees are able to do the jobs they were hired to perform, but that employees learn about organizational culture and strategy.

			Lauby, Sharlyn. Manager Onboarding: 5 Steps for Setting New Leaders Up for Success. Alexandria, VA: Society for Human Resource Management, 2016.

			This book, written by yours truly, takes the onboarding conversation to the next level. When an employee is promoted to manager, there are so many things they don’t know, like how to process payroll or create a budget. This book provides a roadmap for creating an onboarding program specifically for managers that will align with existing management development programs.

			Mosley, Eric, and Derek Irvine. Making Work Human: How Human-Centered Companies are Changing the Future of Work and the World. New York: McGraw-Hill, 2021.

			One of the reasons I like this book is because it not only outlines what employees want in an employment experience, but it also shares the data to support it. Then, the authors suggest a framework (i.e., Charter of Employee Rights) for organizations to consider integrating into their culture.

			Heath, Chip, and Dan Heath. The Power of Moments: Why Certain Experiences Have Extraordinary Impact. London: Bantam Press, 2017.

			Heath and Heath share how creating employee moments can provide organizational momentum and ultimately help with goal achievement. This isn’t simply a “celebrate the successes” message, although that’s important. It talks about recognizing milestones and microvictories as well.

			Schawbel, Dan. Back to Human: How Great Leaders Create Connection in the Age of Isolation. New York: Hachette, 2018.

			Schawbel’s book touches on one of the most prevalent issues facing today’s employees: loneliness. Even before the COVID-19 pandemic and increased numbers of remote workers, isolation and loneliness was an issue. This book does a great job of giving managers actionable, practical tools to make a positive difference.

			Pavlou, Christina. “How to Reduce New Hire Turnover.” Workable. https://resources.workable.com/tutorial/new-hire-turnover-rate.

			In an article on the Workable blog, Pavlou claims that about 20 percent of employees leave within their first forty-five days of employment. That’s expensive both in terms of time and cost. Organizations have the opportunity to create a great first impression and positive employee engagement through their onboarding program.

			New hires want to perform at a high level and show the organization that they were the right choice. And organizations want a high level of performance as well. Performance is important, which is why it’s the topic of our next chapter.



* * *



			 				 					1	According to the Alzheimer’s Organization, Huntington’s disease is a progressive brain disorder caused by a single defective gene. It’s considered to be dominant, meaning that people are likely to inherit it from a parent.



				 					2	If you’re looking for more information on AI, don’t forget my interview with Armen Berjikly, director of product at BetterUp in Chapter 2.



				 					3	There’s an unsubstantiated anecdote about Hemingway and a $10 wager among writers to write a six-word story. The anecdote says that he wrote “For sale: baby shoes, never worn.”





OceanofPDF.com





Chapter 4


			Performance Management


			 				Why is Performance Management Important?

				Ten Performance-Management Terms You Should Know

				Performance Management: The Supporting Philosophies, Models, and Theories

				Performance Coaching and Constructive Discipline

				Legal Considerations in Performance Management

				Performance-Management Technology

				Common Practices in Performance Management

				Additional Performance-Management Resources

				Performance Management Matters to Everyone





Why is Performance Management Important?


			Because everyone cares about performance.

			Organizations care about performance because it helps them make products, deliver services, earn profits, and accomplish strategic goals and objectives. Employees care about performance because it helps them earn a paycheck, get a promotion, and achieve career success. So, let’s agree—everyone is focused on performance.

			Performance management (PM) is the group of activities designed to maximize individual performance. PM is not the same as the annual performance appraisal. We’ll talk about performance appraisals (also known as performance evaluations or performance reviews) a little later in this chapter. The performance appraisal is a part of the PM process but they’re not interchangeable terms.

			The reason I want to make this point very clear is because, when you read surveys about performance appraisals, the verdict is usually that everyone hates them. As a result, many organizations are considering eliminating the annual performance appraisal completely.

			But here’s the thing: Performance feedback is absolutely necessary, which is why PM is necessary. Employees want to know how they are doing on the job. “No news is good news” isn’t a PM philosophy. Regular performance feedback increases engagement, improves overall organizational performance, and helps with employee retention. So, regardless of the annual performance review, performance feedback is valuable.

			The question becomes, “What steps can organizations take to make their PM process more effective?” The SilkRoad Technology 2015 Performance Management survey points out that 55 percent of organizations viewed performance reviews as an “event” rather than a “process.” This might be a good place to start:

			 				An event is defined as “a thing that happens.” As such, the outcomes of an event can change regularly. Events are not ingrained in the culture, so they might not receive the support and resources they need to be successful.

				A process is “a series of actions or steps taken in order to achieve a goal.” Processes have a defined consistent goal. They are a regular part of the business operation and viewed differently. Resources are allocated to the process because it helps achieve a goal.



			For performance management to be effective, it needs to be a process, which means we need to think about PM, not just performance appraisals. The process of PM is a way to provide feedback, accountability, and documentation for performance outcomes.

			Regardless of your opinions about the traditional annual performance appraisal, organizations still need to have a process for managing performance successfully. Employees want to hear regular performance feedback conversations throughout the course of the year. Even organizations that are ditching the annual review aren’t abandoning accountability, feedback, and documentation. So it’s important for organizations to create a process that aligns with their needs and produces results.

			The good news is that organizations have some flexibility in creating a PM process that works for them and their employees. Here are a few key elements that will make any performance management process successful:

			 				Involve management. Managers are responsible for setting performance expectations, providing feedback and coaching, and recognizing excellent work. This doesn’t happen on the sidelines. Managers need to buy into and be an active part of the PM process.

				Create consistent performance standards. Organizations need performance standards as part of their consumer brand, product quality standards, and customer service, just to name a few. Employee performance should be measured against the standard.

				Set a big hairy audacious goal (BHAG)1 to drive the performance of individuals and teams. Organizational cultures should place additional emphasis on smaller goals that align employee performance with that BHAG. The connection creates engagement because employees see how their work helps the company.

				Do learning and development activities that provide employees with the knowledge and skills to do the work. Companies that want high performance should make investments in employee learning and development. It will allow employees to accomplish their goals—both now and in the future.

				Build an effective process and allocate resources to make it work. PM technology solutions can reduce administrative burden and, in turn, free up managers, human resources, and employees to focus on delivering quality feedback.

				Let employees know how they are performing through feedback and coaching sessions. Employees want to do a good job. Managers should regularly tell employees about their performance—what’s good, what could be improved, and even more importantly, how to evaluate their own work. When employees can evaluate their own performance well, they can set their own goals and become self-learners.

				Make performance management part of workplace culture with ongoing conversations. This component brings the other four items (management, goals, learning, and feedback) together. Organizations should create cultures in which discussions about performance goals, learning, coaching, and so forth are happening regularly.



			You might be saying to yourself, “Hey, this is a great list. But it’s easier said than done.” And you’re right. If the list were easy, everyone would have nailed it by now. We’d all be working on high-performing teams. Mastering this list is a journey.

			Organizations cannot let the difficulty of the task keep them from creating a successful PM process. Not taking the time to define the process isn’t fair to the manager, and most of all, the employee.

			Speaking of the employee, I do realize that one of the most visible activities in the PM process is the annual performance appraisal. And as I mentioned, many organizations and individuals are torn about its effectiveness. I think every organization has to decide the role of the performance review in their PM process. Some people may complain about annual performance appraisals because they just find them boring.

			Let’s face it, it’s the same process using the same form. And if the goal is for employees to have consistent performance, that means that managers are discussing the same things with employees every single year. Long-term employees have participated in the same process each year for what seems like an eternity.

			Don’t get me wrong, I believe in the performance appraisal and its purpose, but maybe it’s time to infuse some new life into the annual appraisal process. So if you’re organization is trying to find ways to bring value and new perspective to your performance appraisal process, here are a few things to consider:

			 				Ask employees to do a self-evaluation. Give employees a copy of their last review and ask them to rate their own performance. Managers get time to reflect and prepare to discuss an employee’s performance. The employee should get the same. Doing a self-evaluation can be eye-opening for both the employee and the manager.

				Incorporate goal setting. Performance review conversations do not have to be completely focused on the past. This is a great opportunity to talk about company goals and how an employee’s work aligns with those goals. Ask employees to come prepared to discuss one to two goals they would like to accomplish.

				Break the longer annual review conversation into smaller discussions. I once worked for a company that had a series of small conversations instead one long performance discussion. The conversations focused on goal setting, performance, career development, and progress towards goals. Both the manager and employee knew what the conversation was going to focus on, and it was brief and to the point.

				Add a stay interview component. According to the 2015 SHRM/Globoforce Employee Recognition Survey, employee retention and turnover is the number one challenge facing HR professionals today. Companies can include a few questions during the performance review meeting about the reasons an employee enjoys working for the company or the tasks they particularly like about their job. Learn why employees stay so those things don’t change.

				Train managers to ask for feedback. I realize the performance review is typically about an employee’s performance, but just because the employee is getting feedback doesn’t mean they can’t give some. This is a great time for managers to get feedback about their performance. Ask how you can support the goals of employees or ask them to come to the meeting prepared to give one piece of feedback.



			Performance reviews do not have to be stale and boring. Companies do not have to do something radical to make them fresh. Break up the conversations. Add some different components to performance reviews. Train managers (and employees) on getting and receiving feedback. And, when in doubt about what to change, ask employees and managers what they would like to see happen.

			The performance review process should help the employee and organization stay focused on their goals so both will be successful. That means it’s critical for organizations to have a PM process that accomplishes that goal. If they do, people should see the value and want to support the PM process.





Ten Performance-Management Terms You Should Know


			I believe that part of the reason that performance management can be so challenging is because PM terms are used interchangeably (like with performance management and performance appraisals). Honestly, I do it myself. While I don’t know that we will be able to completely change it, but by understanding common PM terms, we can ask questions to seek clarification when discussing performance.

			Ethics

			I want to start with ethics because all performance should be ethical. A common definition for ethics is “the moral principles that govern a person’s behavior.” Most organizations have an ethical standard that they abide by. That being said, TIME has published a couple of statistics on ethical behavior that organizations need to keep in mind.

			The first one is that graduating students would sacrifice pay for ethics. According to researchers David B. Montgomery of Stanford University and Catherine A. Ramus of the University of California at Santa Barbara, 88.3 percent of graduating MBA students say they’d take a pay cut to work for firms that have ethical business practices, and the average amount they’d forgo is $8,087, according to a survey of 759 students in North America and Europe. We throw around the cliché “everyone has a price.” This first statistic does raise questions about compensation and ethics that organizations will want to explore in terms of defining ethical behavior, consistency, and personal impact.

			The second statistic suggests that a lack of sleep leads to unethical conduct. In a research experiment lead by Christopher M. Barnes of Virginia Tech, people who cheated in the experiment had slept an average of 22.39 minutes fewer the night before than noncheaters. The study, in which cheaters over reported their scores on a test to gain financial advantage, shows that low levels of sleep are associated with unethical behavior. This second statistic suggests that managers who demand results that require employees to stay up late and miss sleep may be increasing the likelihood that workers will fudge results and engage in other forms of cheating.

			Organizations want to create ethical standards that align with their values and culture. But more importantly, organizations want to support ethical performance through appropriate compensation and reward programs as well as employee well-being. In addition to having a code of ethics for professional members, SHRM has a sample code of ethics on their website to guide organizations in developing their own.

			Code of Conduct

			An ethics standard is often contained within a code of conduct. Organ­izations have a code of conduct to basically outline the work rules that all employees will agree to. Typical inclusions in a code of conduct deal with theft, destruction, working under the influence, possession of illegal drugs, disclosure of confidential information, and so on. SHRM has sample codes of conduct on their website as well as a code of conduct for professional members.

			Performance Standards

			Performance standards are the behaviors that identify acceptable and unacceptable employee performance. Here’s an example: I once worked for a company that said all phone calls should be answered within three rings. If you answered the phone within three rings, then you were meeting the performance standard. If you answered the phone within four or five rings, that was labeled not meeting the standard, and if you consistently answered the phone in one or two rings, that could be considered exceeding the standard.

			It’s a simplistic example, but it illustrates the point that for every job, there are a list of performance standards. And every performance standard needs to be defined in terms of what acceptable and unacceptable behavior looks like. The SHRM Foundation has a free resource titled “Performance Management: A Roadmap for Developing, Implementing, and Evaluating Performance Management Systems” that includes specific examples for developing performance standards.

			Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities

			Knowledge, skills, and abilities (KSAs) are terms that are often used interchangeably but are really three different things. It’s important to know the difference, even though the difference can be subtle.

			Knowledge is the theoretical or practical understanding of a subject. For example, an employee might have knowledge of the ADDIE model used in instructional design. This doesn’t mean the employee knows how to be an instructional designer. It means they know the model. (If you don’t know about the ADDIE model, don’t worry. We’ll cover it in Chapter 6, Learning and Development.)

			Skills are the proficiencies developed through training or experience. Using the ADDIE example, the employee has demonstrated skills in applying the ADDIE model when designing training programs. Skills are usually something that has been learned, so we can develop our skills through the transfer of knowledge.

			Abilities are the qualities of being able to do something. There is a fine line between skills and abilities. Most people would say the differentiator is whether the thing in question was learned or innate. I think of organization and prioritization as abilities that can help an employee develop their instructional design skills.

			I believe the reason we sometimes use these terms interchangeably is because they are all must-haves when it comes to performance. Recruiters look for knowledge, skills, and abilities during the hiring process. Managers use KSAs when they are considering employees for transfers and promotions. KSAs are used as the company creates and updates their replacement and succession plans.

			As we continue our conversation about performance, it will be important to understand the difference because the way we obtain knowledge, skills, and abilities can vary. If we’re an organization trying to figure out how to improve performance, then we must link the right solutions. For instance, if the issue is knowledge, then maybe we can create an in-house library where employees can check out books on needed topics. For skills, the answer might be training. Further, if abilities need to be improved, it is possible to develop personal action plans that give employees the opportunity to refine their abilities.

			The interchangeable use of these three terms is a perfect example of when we can use our ability to ask good questions—not to correct someone for using the wrong word, but to confirm that we’re all on the same page. HR can use their findings to design a performance intervention that creates positive results.

			Goals, Objectives, and Outcomes

			Goals, objectives, and outcomes are all terms focused on achievement. While they have slightly different definitions, they are on some level interrelated.

			Table 4.1. Sample Goals, Objectives, and Outcomes

			 				 					 					 					 					 				 				 					 						 						 							Outcome

						 						 							Goal

						 						 							Objective



				 				 					 						 							Company

						 						 							Increase market share

						 						 							Increase profit by 50% over last quarter

						 						 							Call all existing customers in Q3 with a special promotion



					 						 							Individual

						 						 							Get a pay increase

						 						 							Become a SHRM-certified professional

						 						 							Research all relevant HR certifications



				 			 			Goals are defined as an observable and measurable end result having one or more objectives to be achieved. Goals are typically broad in scope. For example, a goal might be for an organization to increase profit by 50 percent in the next quarter. Or an individual might have a goal to become a SHRM-certified professional.

			Objectives are a specific result you’re trying to achieve within a time frame and with available resources. They’re considered more specific and easier to measure than a goal. Think of them as the steps you will take to achieve the goal. To build on the previous examples, a company’s objective might be “Call all existing customers in Q3 with a special promotion to increase sales.” For an individual, the objective might be to research all relevant HR certifications and register for the exam before the end of the year.

			Outcomes are the measurement and evaluation of an activity’s results against its intended or projected results. Outcomes are what you hope to achieve when you accomplish the goal. Again, using the same examples, the organization’s outcome might be to increase market share by selling more products. That’s what the company is trying to do. For an individual, the outcome could be to get a new job or a pay increase as a result of earning a certification.

			Organizations might find the goal-setting process more valuable if they focused on outcomes and then goals and objectives. The key principle of employee engagement is that employees need to see how their work has value. Organizations will want to make sure that employees not only know how their goals align with the organization’s goals and objectives but also with business outcomes.

			Feedback

			Feedback is information about a product, service, or a person’s performance. I hate to argue with the dictionary, but if you look up the definition for feedback in your favorite internet browser, it might also include the phrase “which is used as a basis for improvement.” Feedback is information. A manager could provide an employee feedback about their performance by saying, “Your answer to the client about our current shipping dates was perfect. Thanks for stepping in.” No suggestions for improvement. Instead, a confirmation to keep doing what you’re doing. Feedback is an essential part of performance management. Employees need feedback.

			Empowerment and Delegation

			Empowerment and delegation are focused on the authority to do something.

			Delegation happens when a manager assigns (or delegates) a task to the employee. The manager believes the employee can perform the task to the company standard.

			Empowerment is a little different. The term became very popular back in the 1980s and because of its “trend du jour” status, it eventually became something that no one wanted to talk about anymore. When a manager empowers an employee, they are giving the employee the authority to act in their absence.

			I’m bringing empowerment up because employees need to be empowered to do things. We can’t shy away from the word. Employees cannot and should not have to ask a manager every time they need to do something. It’s not good for the employee, the manager, or the company. Performance involves both delegation and empowerment.

			High-Performing Employees

			High-performing employees (HiPer) are those individuals with a proven record of exceeding the company performance standards. Organizations might also use the same term in the context of a high-performing team.

			Some of the traits typically associated with high-performing employees include job quality, self-learning, excellent communication skills, initiative, and good problem-solving and decision-making skills.

			High-performing teams often have high-performing individuals as members. A high-performing team usually excels in the areas of collaboration, consensus building, and communication. They have leadership. And they have a well-defined goal, or BHAG, that drives performance.

			High-Potential Employees

			High-potential employees (HiPo) are individuals who have the potential and desire to become a high performer. There are advantages and disadvantages to identifying HiPo individuals, but the first and most difficult question is “Do you tell them?”

			This isn’t an easy question to answer. A core principle of performance management is communication, so this sets up a situation where the organization must decide if they are going to share with an employee that their performance has the potential to fall into that high-performing category.

			The advantages of telling the employee include increased motivation, commitment, and retention. The company is also able to discuss with the employee future possibilities like promotions and mobility. The disadvantage is that the employee might develop incorrect assumptions about their future opportunities. The employee could also place too much pressure on themselves and then develop stress and burnout, which wasn’t the intention.

			We’re going to discuss more about developing high-performing and high-potential employees in Chapter 7, Succession Planning, Upskilling, and Reskilling.

			Bias

			Bias is defined as “a prejudice in favor of or against someone or something.” While not all biases are negative, biases can have a negative impact on employee performance. Employees expect their performance reviews to be fair and free of biases. Many kinds of bias can show up during the performance appraisal process. Here are six common ones:

			 				Contrast bias occurs when the manager compares an employee’s performance to other employees instead of the company performance standard. When employees are ranked in comparison, the result is that someone must end up at the bottom, even if they are exceeding the standard. In this situation, the problem isn’t the employee, it’s the goal or standard that has been set.

				Halo bias happens when an employee is rated highly in all areas because of one thing they do well. I’ve seen this happen with salespeople. The employee achieves their sales goals and senior management loves it. But behind the scenes, they create havoc and don’t have the respect of their coworkers.

				Horn bias is the opposite of halo. An employee is rated as a poor performer because of one thing they don’t do well. An example would be the accounting clerk who is great at everything but filing. It piles up because they procrastinate, resulting in the company eventually hiring a temp to get the filing caught up. In all other areas, the employee is a top performer.

				Leniency bias takes place when a manager gives everyone on their team a satisfactory rating. Unfortunately, I’ve often seen this happen when a manager has a large span of control coupled with a common review date. The manager has dozens of reviews to work on and a heart full of good intentions. But somewhere in the process, the manager gets tired and starts giving everyone a satisfactory rating because it’s easy and doesn’t require any written supporting statements.

				Recency occurs when the employee’s most recent behavior becomes the primary focus of the review. The results can go both ways. A poor performer does something terrific and their past performance is forgotten, or an excellent performer makes a mistake and it weighs down the rest of the review.

				Proximity bias is the idea that employees within close physical proximity to the manager will be perceived better. Conversely, employees who do not come into the office everyday are not considered at the same level of performance. This type of bias is being discussed more often given the COVID-19 pandemic and increased numbers of employees working remotely.



			Bias is a real issue in performance appraisals. We also often see bias in the talent-acquisition process. The more resources we provide to managers, hopefully the less bias we will see in performance reviews and the more comfortable they will get with discussing performance. This benefits employees, the organization, and the bottom line.





Performance Management: The Supporting Philosophies, Models, and Theories


			In this section, we’ll talk about some of the specific models and processes that are associated with PM.

			Graphic Rating Scales

			While I do not have any statistics to support this, my guess is that graphic rating scales are the most common format for performance reviews. If you’re not familiar, these are the 1–5 ratings given to employees in various areas: quality of work, quantity of work, and so on. Many companies use them because they’re easy to administer. There’s absolutely nothing wrong with that.

			However, there are a couple of things that organizations should think about if they’re using graphic rating scales. First is the issue about what the rating 3 (out of 5) represents. Most employees think it indicates average performance. I always say that’s wrong. It represents meeting the performance standard. And since most companies I know have pretty high standards, 3 is good and maybe even great. It means you’re meeting the (high) standard. Last time I checked, there’s nothing wrong with meeting the standard. If all our employees met the standard, just think how great the company would be?!

			The second issue is about the 1 and 2 ratings. If 3 means you meet the standard, then 1 and 2 represent not meeting the standard. But I’ve never heard of degrees to which a person does not meet a standard. Either you meet the standard or you don’t. And if you don’t, why wouldn’t the rating be 0?

			Just my opinion here, but dealing with 1s and 2s could be merely a statistical manipulation of the numbers. In my experience, it happened so managers can still give employees pay increases without dealing directly with the issues. It’s possible that the organization isn’t doing your employees any favors by playing this numbers game. If someone doesn’t meet the standard, it should be a 0 rating and it should be addressed with the employee.

			Graphic rating scales (or any kind of performance appraisal rating for that matter) only work if they’re clearly defined and managers understand them. If managers aren’t properly trained on how to set expectations and explain the performance management process, they’ll do things like call employees average or tell employees they aren’t performing to the company standard, give them a 2 rating, and make sure they get a merit increase.

			One of the best ways to keep employees engaged and get high performance is via a well-defined and properly executed performance appraisal and feedback process. I’m not talking big, elaborate, or complex. Just make sure everyone understands how it works and uses it properly.

			Behaviorally Anchored Rating Scales

			In the explanation about graphic rating scales, I mentioned the need for clearly defined performance standards. Behaviorally Anchored Rating Scales (BARS) are a way to get those definitions. Basically, what BARS does is create an example of what performance would look like at every level of the graphic rating scale. Here’s an example using a customer service complaint scenario:



			Figure 4.1 Sample Behaviorally Anchored Rating Scale (BARS)

			BARS takes the subjectivity and bias out of ratings by giving managers a scale with examples to evaluate performance. In my example, I used a “0” for not meeting the performance standard, but organizations could use a “1” or “2” if they feel it works for them. This type of scale would need to be created for all of the performance standards being evaluated.

			BARS can be incredibly useful for performance standards like attendance where one manager might evaluate an employee at a “5” because they show up every day on time and another manager calls that a “3” because they’re just doing their job. It can bring consistency to the organization and reduce perceptions of inequity and favoritism.

			A side note: Organizations that create rating scales can also use them in the talent-acquisition process as part of their selection and evaluation efforts. It could help hiring managers evaluate a candidate’s responses during the interview to determine if their behaviors meet, don’t meet, or exceed the organization’s performance standard.

			Management by Objectives

			Where graphic rating scales and BARS are methods to define and evaluate an employee’s performance, management by objectives (MBO) is an activity where the manager and the employee set goals that will be used in evaluating performance. The term management by objectives was first introduced by Peter Drucker in his 1954 book, The Practice of Management.

			In Drucker’s book, the steps to using MBO were (1) review an organizational goal, (2) set a worker objective, (3) monitor progress, (4) evaluate, and (5) give reward. Over time, organizations have adapted MBO to align with their preferred method of goal setting. For example, an organization using the MBO concept might use SMART as the way to set goals. (A quick reminder: we talked about the SMART acronym in Chapter 1, Strategic and Workforce Planning.)

			Another way that organizations have adapted MBO is by including it with graphic rating scales. So, an employee is evaluated on the core responsibilities of their job—knowledge, attendance, teamwork, and so on—and they are also evaluated on their ability to accomplish goals. This allows the organization to use the graphic rating scale for only those areas that require it and then use the MBO aspect to demonstrate the ability to collaborate, communicate, deliver quality, and so on. The idea behind this is that accomplishing goals will evaluate one aspect of performance and the graphic rating scale the other.

			Often, organizations that use MBO build a mid-evaluation cycle check-in into their PM process. It’s an opportunity for the manager and employee to discuss how things are going and possibly make adjustments. The organization might have to give the employee additional resources. They might need to adjust the outcomes. And there’s a real possibility that the organization could need to work with the employee in setting a new goal. Organizations in highly competitive industries or business economics could necessitate changing goals. There’s absolutely nothing wrong with this. In fact, if organizations don’t change goals to match business conditions, employees could end up getting frustrated and disengaged.





Performance Coaching and Constructive Discipline


			So far, we’ve spent a lot of time talking about PM in the context of a performance review or a discussion about overall performance. We can’t ignore the fact that there could be times when an employee isn’t contributing their fair share. The rest of the team can tell this employee is a poor performer. A manager knows they need to address it because if they don’t do something, their credibility will suffer. But what do they say?

			The purpose of performance coaching conversations like this isn’t to punish the employee. It’s to change their performance behaviors. Managers shouldn’t delay the conversation because the employee will think their behavior is acceptable since no one addressed it. The longer the wait, the harder the conversation. Here’s an outline you can use and share with managers for planning an employee performance coaching conversation:

			 				Let the employee know your concern. Don’t minimize the importance of this conversation by spending a huge amount of time with small talk about the latest season of Ted Lasso or Squid Game and a little on the topic of performance. This is an important matter and should be treated that way.

				Share what you have observed. Offer specifics about actual behaviors you’ve witnessed. If someone else witnessed the behaviors, try to have that person there. Employees don’t respond well to the line “someone told me you did this.” If you’re trying to change behavior, it’s important that you can specifically discuss the behavior.

				Explain how their behavior impacts the team. Employees might not realize how their behavior negatively impacts the organization or the team. It’s important to draw a connection between their behavior and impact to the company. If negative impact can’t be explained, then an employee will question why they need to change their behavior.

				Tell them the expected behavior. It’s possible that an employee will not know what they should be doing. Come to the discussion prepared to explain what the acceptable performance standard is and how an employee can achieve the standard. If an employee needs refresher training, be prepared to authorize it.

				Solicit solutions from the employee on how to fix the situation. This is so important! Let the employee tell you what they’re going to do to fix the situation. It creates buy-in. If you tell an employee what to do, they haven’t bought into it. If necessary, give the employee a short time to think about possible solutions.

				Convey the consequences. Let the employee know what will happen if the situation is not resolved. Please notice that I haven’t written one word about disciplinary action. Sometimes the consequence is an employee will not be eligible for a transfer or they will not be able to participate in remote work. Maybe the next step is discipline. Regardless, make sure the employee is aware of what happens if the matter isn’t resolved.

				Agree upon a follow-up date. I said it before, “No news is good news” isn’t a PM philosophy. After the employee agrees to work toward improving their performance, set a follow-up date to discuss progress.

				Express your confidence. The goal of this coaching conversation is to improve performance, so don’t be afraid to tell an employee you’re confident they can correct the situation and that you will be there to support them.



			None of us likes to have a negative performance conversation. I always try to remember the purpose—it’s to help an employee change their behavior. If the conversation stays focused on helping the employee be successful, then hopefully it never escalates to disciplinary action and the employee understands that the manager and the company are having this conversation because they want the employee to be successful.

			Performance conversations can be a bit scary—both for the person giving them and the person receiving the feedback. Take time to plan out your thoughts. Think of the different responses that could arise during the conversation and how you would answer them. Preparation will make the coaching conversation easier and hopefully help you get the results you’re looking for.

			If the employee’s performance improves, be sure to ask the employee what they did or didn’t do to change the situation during the follow-up meeting. Their answer becomes a proven strategy that you might want to know. If another employee is facing a similar challenge, you now know of something that works and might be able to suggest it.

			If the employee’s performance doesn’t improve and you’re considering disciplinary action, review the organization’s disciplinary policy. If you have any questions about it, talk with HR, management, and possibly legal counsel regarding options. Our first option should not be discipline, but when we do have to take disciplinary action, it’s important to be comfortable with the policy.

			A traditional disciplinary policy includes the following:

			 				Informal coaching is like the process described at the beginning of this section. It’s a conversation to let the employee know that their behavior needs to change.

				Verbal warnings are typically the first official step in the disciplinary process. Organizations allow for a varied number of verbal warnings depending on the behavior in question. Some companies will ask managers to document verbal warnings in writing. I know, that sounds counterintuitive, but it does happen.

				Written warnings begin the formal documentation to the employee’s file. Like with verbal warnings, organizations might allow for more than one written warning. At this point, many organizations will bring HR into the process to review the written warning before meeting with the employee or to be a witness to the conversation.

				Suspensions happen for two reasons. The first is when the organization is investigating a situation and it would be advisable to not have the employee onsite during the investigation. The second is when the organization really wants the employee to consider the severity of the disciplinary path they are on. They might offer the employee a one-day suspension with pay in the hopes they will return committed to change their behavior. Depending on the situation, the company’s legal counsel might get involved in the matter.

				Termination is—well, you know what termination is. The point I want to make here is that if organizations follow the disciplinary policy, then employees should know the result of not changing their behavior.



			No one gets into management to conduct discipline. But when it’s necessary, there should be a plan in place that gives employees plenty of chances to change their behavior.



			Figure 4.2 A Traditional Disciplinary Policy





Legal Considerations in Performance Management


			The legislation in this section has implications in other areas like talent acquisition and benefits, but I’ve included them here because of their impact on performance. Please keep in mind the full scope of the law.

			The Pregnancy Discrimination Act of 1978

			The Pregnancy Discrimination Act of 1978 is an amendment to Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. According to the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, an employer cannot treat less favorably a pregnant worker who is temporarily unable to perform some of her job duties because of pregnancy.

			There are other laws that cover aspects of pregnancy as well. While pregnancy isn’t considered a disability under the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA), pregnancy-related conditions such as morning sickness, back pain, and lifting requirements may qualify for accommodation under the ADA Amendments Act.

			Organizations also must be aware that pregnancy is covered under the Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA), which provides up to twelve weeks of job-protected unpaid leave.

			Lastly, several states have pregnancy-protection laws. Organizations will want to make sure they are aware of their state legislation.

			Sexual Harassment

			Sexual harassment is protected against under Title VII of the Civil Right Act, which states it is illegal to discriminate against someone on the basis of sex. Typically, sexual harassment cases fall into two categories: quid pro quo and hostile work environment.

			Quid pro quo is a Latin term meaning “this for that.” It implies demands for sexual favors in exchange for some benefit like a promotion or a pay increase or to avoid something detrimental like a termination or a demotion.

			Hostile work environment sexual harassment happens when workplace conduct is so severe that it creates an intimidating or demeaning situation, such that the employee’s performance is affected.

			The victim and the harasser may be a man or a woman. They do not have to be of the opposite sex. The harasser can be the victim’s supervisor, coworker, or a vendor or supplier. The victim doesn’t have to be directly harassed but could be affected by the offensive conduct. The harasser’s conduct must be unwelcome.

			Prevention is key to eliminating sexual harassment in the workplace. Organizations need to have a policy, establish a complaint process, conduct training, and investigate any concerns.

			SHRM offers members sample sexual-harassment policies, compliance and investigation procedures, and guidance on how to investigate sexual harassment allegations, including when to contact legal counsel.

			Workplace Violence

			Workplace violence is any act or threat of physical violence, harassment, intimidation, or disruptive behavior that occurs at work. There are four different types of workplace violence situations:

			 				Criminal-intent violence occurs when someone has no real connection to the organization and enters to commit a criminal act like a robbery.

				Customer/client violence happens when the perpetrator is the recipient of a product or service provided by the organization (victim). It could be a disgruntled former customer.

				Coworker violence occurs when the perpetrator has some employment-related relationship to the company. This would be an assault by a current or former employee, supervisor, or manager.

				Personal-relationship violence occurs when the perpetrator has a personal relationship with an employee but not the company. An example might be a domestic-violence situation.



			Organizations will want to have a policy in place, well-communicated reporting procedures, a response plan, and employee training to confront workplace violence. The good news is that there are several employer resources available to help with workplace violence education and training:

			 				The US Department of Labor has a workplace-violence program at https://www.dol.gov/agencies/oasam/centers-offices/human-resources-center/policies/workplace-violence-program.

				The Occupational Safety and Health Administration offers a reference guide for controlling violence in the workplace at https://www.osha.gov/workplace-violence/prevention-programs.

				The National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) has online courses for nurses and taxi drivers in both English and Spanish at https://www.cdc.gov/niosh/topics/violence/default.html.

				SHRM offers members a sample workplace-violence policy at https://www.shrm.org/resourcesandtools/tools-and-samples/policies/pages/cms_000590.aspx.



			Risk Management

			Risk management is the process of assessing exposure to the organization and determining the best way to manage the potential. While a lot of what risk management involves is mitigating or reducing organizational risk, it’s important to note that sometimes organizations will want to enhance on a risk situation. For example, a risk that the organization might encounter is that the organization is experiencing an increasing number of workplace accidents. A mitigation strategy would be to create a safety committee that will investigate accidents when they occur. There’s absolutely nothing wrong with this strategy, and many organizations have safety committees. An enhancement would be for the organization to provide all supervisors with safety-skills training and communication skills, so they can proactively talk about safety incidents before they occur.

			The two major factors being considered within risk management are probability and impact. What are the chances of the risk happening? And, if it happens, what’s the impact to the organization?

			The LEGO Group uses what is called the PAPA model to evaluate risk situations. PAPA is an acronym for park, adapt, prepare, and act.

			The challenge within risk management can be reaching consensus within the organization about where risk lies and how much risk is safe to assume. For example, one department might assign a higher-risk threat to a natural disaster like a hurricane because they’re located in an area where they are common. Organizational risk could also evolve over time. A business that is expanding globally might have to consider terrorism whereas they may not have in the past.



			Figure 4.3 PAPA Model

			The Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1988

			The Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1988 requires federal contractors to provide a drug-free workplace as a condition of receiving a contract from a federal agency. There are also federal drug-testing requirements for certain public safety and security positions like transportation, law enforcement, and so on.

			Several states have drug-free workplace legislation that give companies reductions in workers’ compensation premiums. Therefore, it’s important that organizations have a clear understanding of what drug-free workplace legislation might apply to their business.

			Another factor that organizations must be aware of is what drugs are being referred to in the legislation. For example, in some industries like transportation, it’s not just illegal drugs but also includes alcohol. There should also be consideration whether marijuana (medical or recreational) is included. While the federal government still considers marijuana an illegal substance (at the time of this book being published), several states have legalized marijuana for medical use, recreational use, or both.

			Another area that organizations need to consider in their drug-testing policies is when they will test. Generally, employers look at four common times: (1) pre-employment, (2) postaccident, (3) random, and (4) reasonable suspicion.

			SHRM provides members with sample drug and alcohol policies. Organizations will want to communicate to candidates and employees their policies regarding drug and alcohol testing and use. They will want to have a clear documentation process in place for managers who suspect an employee is under the influence.

			Organizations will also want to consider offering resources for addiction, possibly under the company’s health-care benefit or an employee assistance program (EAP). It is possible that addiction could be covered under the ADA and the FMLA.





Performance-Management Technology


			The good news is that PM software does exist. The challenge is finding the software that fits your organizational needs.2 Some software programs could be simply performance appraisal administration, and that’s great if that’s all you need. Other technology options could include a long list of features, including

			 				Performance review management, with customizable templates,

				Goal setting and tracking,

				360-degree reviews,

				Development plans (including the nine-box grid and succession planning),

				Real-time feedback and recognition, and

				One-on-one meeting notes.



			This is a good time to talk about the technology purchasing process. Organizations can easily overbuy when it comes to technology and pay for features that they don’t use. The reverse is also true: organizations might be tempted to start small and then find their technology doesn’t deliver when they need it to. Therefore, I thought it might be helpful to put together a list of things to consider when you’re thinking about buying new technology. This is by no means a comprehensive list, but it’s one that can help start conversations both internally with key stakeholders and with technology vendors:

			 				Assess the organization. Is this a first-time implementation of technology or an upgrade to an existing system? What’s the budget? It could also be helpful to conduct a user analysis in terms of the level of tech savviness that employees, managers, and even HR have. At some point, companies will need to prepare an overview of their current technology infrastructure and decide if it can support the new technology being considered.

				Establish the goal and must-haves. Companies need to answer the question, “Why is the organization considering this purchase?” The answer will determine how they measure whether the technology investment is the right thing to do. The company will also want to establish what things are must-haves in the technology solution. For example, when talking about HR technology, are compliance tools a requirement? And if so, does it need to be at a federal, state, and local level?

				Prioritize customization and features. There are lots of things we would love to have when purchasing technology. That doesn’t mean we really need them all. The company should prioritize the must-haves (from #2) and nice-to-haves. A few things to think about are single sign-on, mobile responsiveness, data storage, real-time access, and so forth. Another conversation to have is about customization: How much needs to happen to have an effective solution?

				Confirm the request for proposal (RFP) process. Technology is a major purchase for almost every organization. Find out who needs to be involved, what information needs to be on the proposal, and what selection criteria will be used.

				Understand the technology platform requirements. One of the details that organizations will want from prospective vendors is the type of technology infrastructure required for the new system. It’s also important to know if the new technology is compatible with existing HR systems and non-HR systems. For example, is the new technology compatible with all internet browsers?

				Witness the user experience firsthand. When it comes to HR technology, I like to think there are three user groups: employees, managers, and HR. For employees, the user experience should mirror something like the technology we already use. For managers, it needs to provide real-time data for operational decisions. For HR, it should have a dashboard to produce reporting.

				Find out what type of user training support is provided. We want to find out about training during initial as well as in ongoing implementation for HR, employees, and managers. Remember that the training needs to support every technology level identified in #1. It should also be in a variety of formats like blogs, community forums, webinars, user conferences, and so on.

				Ask about implementation plans. There are obvious questions such as, “How much time does it take?” but organizations also want to know the level of support that the vendor provides. For major implementations, I’ve heard of companies partnering with a third-party firm (that has a strategic partnership with the vendor) to oversee the implementation. Of course, those are logistics that must be considered as part of the proposal.

				Determine how updates and maintenance will be handled. While this might be the last number on the list, it really goes back to #1. Think about the type of organizational culture you have when it comes to technology. Do you consider yourself an early adopter or does the company like to wait a while to implement updates? This is going to factor into the decision. Also, companies need to decide who will be responsible for updates and get that person involved. Finally, it’s important to know what role (if any) the vendor will play as well as ongoing maintenance costs.



			As you can see, we’ve only scratched the surface of the questions and decisions that need to be considered when purchasing technology, but it’s a start. If your organization is in the market for technology, I could see companies having conversations about #1 through #5 prior to a conference like SHRM Annual or HR Tech, spending time during the event focused on #6, and #7 through #9 being part of follow-up after the event.

			Buying technology involves planning, and it’s better to have a plan before talking to vendors. It could make the process so much smoother for everyone involved.





Common Practices in Performance Management


			I mentioned at the beginning of this chapter the overabundance of articles about how organizations need to ditch the performance appraisal. In this section, I wanted to share some alternatives to the performance review that might be helpful.

			Eliminate the Performance Review and Put the Employee in Charge

			Several years ago, I had the chance to hear Mark Simpson, then-vice president of legendary people at Texas Roadhouse (a.k.a. Roadhouse, a full-service, casual dining restaurant chain), talk about their organization’s experience with eliminating the performance review. Their motto of “legendary food, legendary service” has led them to be recognized as one of the Employee’s Choice Best Places to Work by Glassdoor and one of America’s 100 Most Trustworthy Companies by Forbes magazine.

			Simpson said the senior leadership team had been trying to figure out for some time how to separate the performance appraisal process from merit increases. They felt when performance and pay are tied together, it created an emotional conversation. They wanted to change the performance discussion to become more productive and constructive. Interestingly, Simpson said he found the answer in an unsolicited email with a subject line about killing the performance appraisal. The email shared details from the book Get Rid of the Performance Review! by Samuel A. Culbert, professor of management at UCLA. After reading the book, Simpson decided to share it around the office and see what others thought.

			After getting a positive reaction to the idea of “killing” performance appraisals, a management team was formed to build and implement a new system. Managers were chosen because they understood both sides of the performance-appraisal process. They both give and get performance reviews. Simpson said it was this team that sold the new process to the senior leadership team. The project became something driven by the operation rather than being an HR initiative.

			Simpson shared that the new performance-appraisal process was called GPS (growth, plan, support) and was conducted thirty days before or after an employee’s anniversary date. Its purpose was to be forward looking instead of backward. Managers already had regularly scheduled one-on-one meetings to talk about current performance. The new GPS process had a focus on the future:

			Growth. What career opportunities would you like in the future.

			Plan. How do you prepare for those future opportunities.

			Support. What resources do you need to be successful.

			We all know the performance appraisal has been entrenched in business for a very long time. The Texas Roadhouse story might offer some inspiration to organizations that are struggling with the same challenges. Simpson emphasized that employees were in charge of the GPS conversations and meeting with their manager. It puts the focus on the employee having a say in their career.

			Quarterly Check-Ins Focus on Employee Development

			Speaking of giving an employee a say in their careers, the other aspect of the performance review that’s getting a lot of attention is moving toward a quarterly check-in model. The idea is that the process would enable individuals at every level of the organization to have conversations about performance, development, growth, and the future.

			Let’s look at a framework for quarterly check-ins that you can consider for your PM process. Before we do, Table 4.2 shows what we’re talking about in terms of a performance conversation shift from “old school” to today.

			Some of you might be saying to yourselves, “I already knew this. I know our company needs to move the PM process into the twenty-first century. I’m looking for ways to make that happen.” I think it’s important to talk about where we are or have been in order to frame the future. When I look at Table 4.2, it reminds me that the performance review is about the employee, like in the Texas Roadhouse story. It’s always been about the employee. And we need to put the employee first.

			Table 4.2 Performance Conversations

			 				 					 					 				 				 					 						 							Focus then

						 						 							Focus today



				 				 					 						 							Event

						 						 							Process



					 						 							Manager / employee

						 						 							Multilevel (individual, manager, team)



					 						 							Compensation focus

						 						 							Development focus



					 						 							One-way communication

						 						 							Two-way conversations



					 						 							Performance counseling

						 						 							Performance development



					 						 							Past problems

						 						 							Future growth and solutions



				 			 			Today, it makes more sense to think of the employee life cycle as a continuous loop versus a linear process. Employees are hired, onboarded, coached, developed, retained, and then transitioned to other roles within the organization. The “other roles” could be full-time, part-time, or a freelancing or consulting opportunity. Thinking of the employee life cycle as a loop shifts the focus to a more employeecentric approach, without losing any of the components.

			That’s exactly the same shift that needs to happen with PM.

			Employees and managers want and need a PM approach that still does what it’s intended to do, but centers around the employee. Specifically, it should be about the employee in four distinct ways:

			 				Their job,

				Their work relationships,

				Their career, and

				Their company.



			Thinking about all the ideas that have been tossed around about performance management processes, I believed these four performance areas captured them all. Table 4.3 shows one way to view these four performance areas.

			Table 4.3 Employee Performance Quadrants

			 				 					 					 				 				 					 						 							My job

						 						 							My work relationships



				 				 					 						 							This area is about the employee’s job and includes outcomes, goals and OKRs.

						 						 							This focuses on the employee’s work relationships with others: their manager and peers (possibly customers).



					 						 							Activities aligned with this quadrant include goal setting, one-on-one meetings, and performance reviews.

						 						 							Activities include multirater reviews, reward and recognition programs, and collaboration.



					 						 							My career development

						 						 							My organization



					 						 							This is all about the employee and their future.

						 						 							This is focused on the employee’s engagement with the organization.



					 						 							Activities include learning and development, self-learning, and career development

						 						 							Activities in this area include stay interviews, engagement surveys, and pulse surveys.



				 			 			I divided the employee performance areas into four quadrants because, frankly, the trend these days is to encourage quarterly check-ins or performance meetings. For organizations already leaning in that direction, this framework provides some creative inspiration in the design of a performance management program. Here’s how each performance area has direct alignment with business goals:

			 				The employee’s job responsibilities bring value every day. Honestly, I’m not aware of a scenario where an employee has a job for no reason whatsoever. Work done in organizations brings value to the business, so we need employees to do a good job every day.

				The employee’s work relationships foster collaboration and team development. In the Harvard Business Review article “Collaborative Overload,” the authors talk about the rise in collaborative work. We also see it in the creation of more open office spaces. Employees need to build positive working relationships, and organizations need to guide and support collaborative behaviors.

				The employee’s career development prepares them for the future. Talent acquisition is a hot topic today because there are more job openings than candidates. This means that—in addition to their ongoing recruiting efforts—organizations are going to make developing internal talent a priority.

				The employee’s pride in the organization leads to retention. In a survey from Accenture, college graduates were asked what’s important to them when looking for an employer. Ninety-two percent said corporate social responsibility. Employees want an organization they can be proud of. Companies need to understand why employees choose them.



			The four performance quadrants are also very flexible, which can help managers and employees take ownership of the process. While the quadrants are presented in one order, there’s no reason an organization can’t change it up to suit their organizational needs.

			This could also be some wild thinking but, if your infrastructure can support it, you could allow divisions or departments the flexibility of focusing on an employee performance area at their discretion, provided they cover all of them during a year. So, let’s say your US offices use the cycle of job, work relationships, career development, organization. Maybe your Europe, Middle East, and Africa offices (EMEA) use the cycle of organization, job, career development, work relationships. HR could play the role of advisor to each business unit to discuss the best cycle for their operation. (This is the better use of HR’s time than chasing down Supervisor Jose about whether he’s completed a ninety-day review for New Hire Leonard.)

			The other flexibility component is that organizations can use a variety of methods, so managers and employees can enjoy it. Repetition can lead to boredom, and the last thing we want is for conversations about performance to become boring. These employee performance areas use face-to-face, peer-to-peer, technologies, and the like to deliver feedback.

			Depending on your organization’s resources, you can add or change one aspect of delivery without changing the entire process. For example, the company might start with incorporating stay interviews into manager and employee one-on-one meetings, then adding electronic onboarding check-ins to the process at a later point in time. The other three performance areas don’t change.

			HR departments have owned the performance review process for a long time. It’s time to sell the organization on a flexible model that allows everyone to get involved. Organizations can eliminate the traditional performance review approach, but it’s impossible to eliminate performance feedback. The good news is that there are many different options available.

			Measuring and Evaluating Performance Management

			There are two ways to measure PM. The first is by measuring actual performance. For example, this could be measuring the actual sales revenue of a sales representative, measuring the productivity of the employees who manufacture a product, or (if you’re an airline) measuring on-time performance. Performance measurement is different in every organization because of different industries and goals.

			The second way to measure PM is to measure the effectiveness of the process. An example would be to measure the performance-review completion percentages by date and manager. An organization might discover that managers are great at delivering annual performance reviews on time but awful at ninety-day reviews. Or maybe every department but accounting is on time with annual reviews. Both of these circumstances can be addressed. (Oh, and I’m not implying anything about our friends in accounting. We love accounting.)

			Another way to measure the effectiveness of the performance-review process is by looking at overall employee scores. The organization might want to look at the average overall employee score by department or by manager to see if the need exists to examine further. For instance, let’s say that we’ve just finalized our annual review process and have calculated the average overall employee ratings by manager. We noticed that in Andy’s department, employees scored lower than in Manuel’s department. That could mean nothing, or this could mean that Andy is rating employees tougher, or Manuel is rating employees more lenient. However, it does give us some information to investigate, and if coaching is necessary, then we can do that. The other aspect that the Andy and Manuel story could tell us is if we’re setting goals inconsistently throughout the organization.

			When it comes to PM, we need to think about measurement and evaluation from two angles. First, do we have a good process in place? Second, is that process bringing us good outcomes? Logically, we should have good employee performance if we have a good process in place.





Additional Performance-Management Resources


			Depending on your organization’s views about PM, you might find one (or all) of these books valuable. A couple of them would be perfect for a manager resource library!

			Pink, Daniel H. Drive: The Surprising Truth about What Motivates Us. New York: Riverhead Books, 2009.

			In this book, Dan Pink addresses the connection between motivation and performance. Pink suggests that the way for organizations to achieve higher levels of performance is by addressing the three essential elements of true motivation: autonomy, mastery, and purpose.

			Mosley, Eric. The Crowdsourced Performance Review: How to Use the Power of Social Recognition to Transform Employee Performance. New York: McGraw-Hill, 2013.

			This book challenges us to apply modern social technologies and transform the annual performance review event into a process where individuals receive feedback from every level of the organization on a regular basis.

			Arthur, Diane. The First-Time Manager’s Guide to Performance Appraisals. New York: AMACOM, 2008.

			This book would be very handy for organizations that don’t need a full-blown performance-appraisal training session—maybe because the company has just a handful of managers who give appraisals or only a couple managers need a refresher. It covers the basics of conducting a performance-review conversation.

			Falcone, Paul. 2600 Phrases for Effective Performance Reviews: Ready-to-Use Words and Phrases That Really Get Results. New York: AMACOM, 2005.

			I know there are a few people who are against phrases books, but it’s helpful for managers who are looking for creative inspiration when it comes to writing about employee performance. Even for managers with solid writing skills, it’s not always easy to find the right words when an employee needs to improve their performance.

			Lee, Christopher D. Performance Conversations: How to Use Questions to Coach Employees, Improve Productivity, and Boost Confidence (Without Appraisals!). Alexandria, VA: Society for Human Resource Management, 2021.

			Successful PM involves conversations, and this book is the guide for making those conversations happen. Sometimes we assume that conversations are easy, and anyone can do them with little or no training. That’s not always true, and this book is the guide for making effective conversations happen.





Performance Management Matters to Everyone


			Employee performance isn’t just a management thing. Employees want to know what it takes to perform well. They want to know when they’re doing a good job. And yes, they want to know when they need to improve.

			They want to know these things because they care about their reputation and the work they do. They want to be known for delivering good work. And we all know they want good pay and benefits.

			In fact, this is probably a good time to talk about what employees get in exchange for their hard work. Let’s move on to Chapter 5: Employee Value Proposition.



* * *



			 				 					1	A big hairy audacious goal (BHAG, pronounced bee-hag) is a compelling, long-term goal that inspires people to act. It was introduced by Jim Collins in the book Built to Last: Successful Habits of Visionary Companies.



				 					2	This seems like a good time to remind everyone about the tech stack conversation in Chapter 4, Onboarding and Employee Engagement. There are so many options when it comes to PM technology. Find what works for your organization.





OceanofPDF.com





Chapter 5


			Employee Value Proposition


			 				Why Is the Employee Value Proposition Important?

				An Interview with Dave Almeda

				Ten Employee Value Proposition Terms You Should Know

				Basic Philosophies, Models, and Theories Supporting Employee Value Proposition

				Legal Considerations for Your Employee Value Proposition

				Technology and the Employee Value Proposition

				Common Practices with the Employee Value Proposition

				Measuring the Employee Value Proposition

				Additional Resources on Employee Value Proposition

				Organizations Need to Show Employees “More Than the Money”





Why Is the Employee Value Proposition Important?


			We’ve all heard the saying that there’s more to compensation than our paychecks. This means there are nonmonetary items of value that organizations provide to employees. These monetary and nonmonetary items combine into what is known as the employee value proposition (EVP). But we need to think about the EVP as more than just compensation and benefits. Organizations should think of EVP in more holistic terms so they can provide employees with a comprehensive view of the value they give to employees. Again, it’s not all about the money. What brings value to employees could be more than a paycheck, though it is a form of currency.

			Employee Value Proposition = Currency

			A few years ago, I had the opportunity to hear John Frehse, senior managing director at Ankura Consulting Group LLC, refer to the EVP in a more practical way. He referred to those monetary and nonmonetary items as “currencies.” Not only does the term currency immediately imply value, but it might be more helpful when it comes to organizations getting the point across to employees that currencies involve more than your paycheck. In his presentation, Frehse shared five different types of currencies that make up the EVP:

			 				Company culture. Employees today want to work for organizations that they can be proud of. A mission-driven culture helps organizations hire and keep the best talent. Organizations need to have strong values and a commitment to social responsibility. More importantly, organizations need their actions to support their words.

				Compensation and benefits. We know that compensation and benefits include salary, benefits, perks, and incentives. What’s important here is that employees are being offered the right salary, benefits, perks, and incentives. Organizations need to offer packages that are externally competitive and internally equitable. Otherwise, employees will be easily swayed by the competition.

				Work environment. There are two principal aspects to the work environment. The first is the physical space in terms of open offices, privacy, the availability of technology, and so on. The other is the emotional space. Does the workplace focus on well-being? Do employees collaborate well and recognize each other’s efforts? Employees want to spend their time working in an environment that is emotionally and physically enjoyable even when the work is challenging and demanding.

				Relationships. According to Gallup research, employees who have positive work relationships expend more effort in their jobs (i.e., they’re more engaged). The quality of managers, peer relationships, and internal communications have a direct bearing on this. Organizations should invest in training and development so people at all levels know how to build and sustain positive working relationships.

				Career development. Employees want to know that the company is going to help them be successful. That means employers must provide training for the jobs employees have today and development for the jobs they want in the future. Employees also want to know that they will get useful performance feedback to help them grow and that career opportunities will exist for them within the organization.





			Figure 5.1 The Five Currencies of EVP

			What becomes interesting in thinking about these currencies is how employers choose to develop and market their EVP. A few questions that employers might want to regularly ask themselves include the following:

			 				Do we know what currencies we’re providing to employees? If so, are they being marketed in our employment brand, recruitment process, orientation program, and so on?

				Have we identified the value of these currencies? Which ones do employees value the most (and the least)?

				Is it time for us to give employees more of a say in the currencies they receive? Are there currencies we should add, change, or delete?

				Do employees know what currencies the company is providing? And if they don’t, what’s the organization doing to tell them?



			Regardless of what’s happening in the labor market, organizations need to make sure their EVP is competitive and being communicated. Letting employees know both monetary and nonmonetary currencies that they will receive helps them decide whether to work for an organization. Once hired, providing ongoing communications about the EVP can impact to what degree an employee engages with the organization and whether they want to stay.

			 				 					 				 				 					 						 							Social Justice PTO: A New Employee Benefit to Consider?

							In this chapter, we’re going to talk about different types of employee benefits, but there’s one that I’ve only heard about within the past few years that I wanted to introduce early. It might be something to think about as you’re reading the rest of this chapter and considering all the EVP options that organizations have available.

							At Globoforce’s WorkHuman Conference, I learned about a new employee benefit called social justice PTO. We’re familiar with the concept of PTO (paid time off). Instead of employees having vacation days, sick days, and so on, they have one bank of time to use as they choose.

							Social justice PTO is paid time off, but for social issues, like protests or marches. Some organizations are allowing employees to use their existing PTO banks for social justice activities, but others have created more specific policies. You can search for articles about social justice benefits in your favorite internet browser.

							One company that’s at the forefront of social justice PTO is the retailer Patagonia. During the conference, I learned that Patagonia allows employees one paid social justice day off per month after they attend a training session on how to be a good activist.

							Regardless of your political leanings, I can see this being something that organizations need to pay attention to. A survey conducted by Harris Poll for Glassdoor indicated that 75 percent of Millennials expect their employer to take a stand on important social issues affecting the country. Those issues include immigration, equal rights, and environmental change.

							If the survey data remains consistent, then companies who take a stand on important social issues could have an advantage finding and hiring the best talent. Employees might have a higher level of engagement because they feel the company shares their social values—or, at least, supports them.

							This might be different from what we’ve always expected in a business setting, but times are changing, along with roles and responsibilities. We talked about corporate social responsibility in Chapter 2 (Strategic and Workforce Planning) and its place in the SHRM BASK. It’s possible that HR pros will need to understand and guide the organization through the social justice PTO process. HR doesn’t have to necessarily establish the company’s CSR initiatives, but they need to help the organization realize that CSR is important and has an impact on employee engagement, recruiting, and retention.

							Employers might not be able to sit on the fence when it comes to social issues. Well, they can, but will it benefit them? More importantly, will it benefit their current and potential employees?





An Interview with Dave Almeda


			One of the things that I’m realizing as I put together this chapter is the incredible number of options that employers have when it comes to designing their EVP. Unfortunately, we’re not going to be able to do a deep dive into all of them. This means that organizations need to have a process for evaluating all the options available to them and deciding on the best EVP for their organization.

			I’m reminded of a conversation that I had with Dave Almeda, chief people officer at UKG, about how the organization was able to merge the employee benefits programs of Kronos and Ultimate Software, two of the world’s most recognized workforce management and HR brands. Even if you’re not going through a merger or acquisition, the process that Almeda shared could be useful for identifying, evaluating, and communicating the organization’s EVP. Here are some excerpts from that interview:

			Sharlyn Lauby: Prior to the merger, both Kronos and Ultimate Software were known separately for their world-class benefits packages. How did you evaluate the existing benefits packages to create a new unified one?

			Dave Almeda: Very carefully and very thoroughly. It was a Herculean team effort by so many employees across UKG (now known as U Krewers), and especially in HR with our benefits team. As soon as we were permitted to do so within the guidelines of the then-pending merger, our combined HR teams immediately began compiling details around what each company provided employees.

			We began by cataloging each company’s existing benefits, programs, and perks—including general benefits details, who was covered, and the corresponding cost to the company—in a side-by-side comparison worksheet.

			Working alongside an outside broker, we asked ourselves several questions to compare what Ultimate Software and Kronos offered. We started with, “Which company’s existing offering was more favorable? Why was that more favorable?” From there, we compared the more favorable offering with the rest of the market. Between the two companies, we were checking all the at-market boxes and, in many cases, one or both companies were above market.

			Once we knew the differences between the separate legacy offerings, we dug into how we would select new plans. For each major line item, the goal was to ensure employees had at least equal to or better than what they had before. We meticulously ran this process for each benefit, to do what was best for our people and take care of every type of family. Of course, we also had a budget to stay within. We engaged our procurement team to maximize the lower fees that were made possible as a result of our increased buying power as a much larger organization (UKG has more than 13,000 employees worldwide today). This process ultimately enabled us to secure the best products for our employees at a reduced per-employee price point that would not have been possible for either organization to secure on its own prior to the merger.

			It required an unprecedented effort for the combined team to create a new benefits package in a short timeframe—including all the work involved to set up, educate, communicate to, and enroll over 10,000 employees in the US and Canada—all with the backdrop of the pandemic, where everything had to be done virtually.

			And that work is not done. As soon as benefits decisions were made for US and Canadian employees, our team ran the same process for U Krewers around the world in Mexico, the UK, France, India, Australia, Singapore, and more. And now, in continuing to listen to our employees, we’ve added new offerings throughout the year—including programs to help care for our employees and their families during the pandemic—as we’re reviewing and negotiating UKG benefits for 2022.

			Lauby: Knowing the history of these two companies, did you feel any pressure (even if it was self-imposed) to make sure that there was equal representation of employee benefits from each company? Why or why not?

			Almeda: There were certain offerings from both sides that were truly cultural pillars. We knew we had to preserve these—such as student-loan-repayment assistance on the Kronos side and premium-free healthcare for employees and their families from Ultimate Software. A small number of companies provide free healthcare premiums—and very few our size. Even fewer include spouses, partners, and dependents. It was a big cost to bring thousands more employees and their families under a premium-free plan, but it was the right thing to do for many reasons—most importantly to honor the commitments that had been made to employees by both organizations by their legacy leadership teams.

			Yet despite a handful of offerings we absolutely had to preserve, our aspiration was—and is—to build something new and great as UKG.

			We have been using terms like “a marriage of equals” and “best of both worlds” to describe our merger. And those terms are absolutely true in myriad ways—from our products to customer success to our cultures—but creating our UKG benefits package was about far more than merely pulling together the best of both.

			We took a philosophical approach to focus on what we wanted to be as UKG. What are we trying to convey? Who are we aspiring to be? How can we stay true to “our purpose is people”? How do we best care for U Krewers, their families, and the community? How do we provide equity for all employees?

			Lauby: I don’t want to take our employee-benefits conversation off-track, but you’ve mentioned taking time to define the values of UKG. And I agree—it’s important to align benefits with values. Can you briefly share more about the alignment?

			Almeda: As we were pulling together the benefits-comparison database, we simultaneously created a second list: a list of values and behaviors that align with our UKG strategy and who we want to be as this new company. We identified the ten key areas that drive the UKG culture (in no particular order):

			 				Leadership,

				Hiring and onboarding,

				Performance and development,

				Rewarding, protecting, and thanking,

				Diversity, equity, inclusion and belonging,

				Communications,

				Celebration and community,

				Policies,

				Workspace and tools, and

				Corporate social responsibility (CSR) and giving.



			These values, behaviors, and strategy pillars directed us to focus on the areas that we felt were needed to help build an intentional culture—we often refer to these areas as culture levers to pull—each with a desired future state. This ideological exercise provided a North Star that helped to guide benefits decisions and priorities. The pressure wasn’t to ensure equal representation from what we had at Kronos or Ultimate Software. It was pressure to create something new, special, culturally aligned, and sustainable for UKG.

			Lauby: Was there any employee benefit where you decided not to adopt either company’s existing benefit and just create something new? If so, what benefit was it?

			Almeda: There were a handful of examples where we took foundations from what each company offered and created something completely new. Running this unprecedented project during a pandemic as our offices remained closed provided opportunities to reallocate money from office-based perks to new programs that can better serve all employees. It also helped us rethink office-only perks that both companies historically provided.

			Is it right to provide benefits that only a portion of your employee population can access? Is there a way to make perks that were traditionally for office-based employees available to all employees—regardless of their location? We are actively working on developing these types of all-employee benefits today, while also thinking about the approach we should be taking to make remote and office programs even more equitable for when we eventually reopen our offices.

			Looking at silver linings in this pandemic, COVID-19 might be the catalyst that raises the industry conversation and motivates more organizations to provide better equity of benefits and perks between office-based, field, and virtual employees.

			Lauby: One benefit that Kronos was well-known for was myTime, an unlimited time-off policy. I’m curious, is myTime a part of UKG employee benefits? Did you make any adjustments?

			Almeda: Yes, we kept unlimited PTO—and now we call it UKrewTime. Both Kronos and Ultimate Software had successful policies for unlimited paid time off. And part of what made both successful was a focus on trust and actively reviewing time-off reports to ensure employees were taking enough time. That’s something even more critical today, as we enter year two of almost all employees working remotely. Managers and leaders not only need to set a healthy example for practicing self-care and taking time off, but also need to have active conversations with employees encouraging them to take vacation time, unplug, and unwind—even if their people don’t have the ability to travel anywhere.

			UKrewTime can be used for anything the employee needs, from vacation, sick time, and personal errands, to taking care of a loved one, volunteering in the community, and voting. While the essence of the unlimited-time-off policy did not change specifically compared with the old Kronos myTime policy, a segment of our UKG employee population, namely part-time and hourly workers, have felt a best of both worlds lift, as they now can take advantage of unlimited paid time off, where they could not before.

			Lauby: How was the new benefits package communicated to employees?

			Almeda: We wanted the internal announcement to be a celebration. A celebration of who we are together. Mergers often come with the connotation of cost savings and cutbacks. When you add in the backdrop of a global pandemic and economic crisis, it would have been easy to assume we were going to cut back—not invest forward like we did. Ours was always and remains a merger of growth.

			Well before our benefits program details were ironed out—around February or March of 2020—our board and investors approved to spend an incremental $35 million more on benefits than what our companies spent combined the year prior. Yet with the backdrop of the pandemic, people struggling at home, and so much change due to the merger, we purposefully held off announcing the benefits internally because of economic uncertainty and, as importantly, because we wanted it to be a celebratory moment when we finally did tell our employees.

			Once the timing was right, we treated it much like a product launch. We hit multiple channels. Our CEO, Aron Ain, provided a preview of the benefits package in one of his regular aron@work video blogs sent to all employees. I sent a comprehensive email to all employees with more details and resources about the new offerings. We held several live webinars specifically about our new healthcare options to coincide with open enrollment. We built documents and pages on our new intranet site, UKG Today, where the HR team continues to write follow-up stories and create videos about specific offerings and policies.

			We debated whether to include the total monetary investment on benefits we’re spending in my email to employees. We wanted to remain humble, but we also wanted employees to know that we are investing in our UKG culture. At the end of the day, driven by our values to be completely transparent and show yet another proof point that this merger is about growth, we let employees know the dollar commitment we made as a company to them and their families.

			Lauby: How are employees reacting to the change?

			Almeda: Overall, employees continue to express gratitude for the UKG benefits, as well as the various other ways we continue to care for our people and their families. Aron and I often receive unsolicited, emotional emails from employees thanking the company for various offerings they’ve taken advantage of to help care for their families. I’ve personally received a lot of heartwarming pictures of employees and their children who enrolled in the virtual summer camp and afterschool “Kids’ Klubs” we set up in 2020 to help families balance homeschooling and working from home.

			But let’s be honest: Change is hard. That’s not a surprise to anyone in HR and people management. And with our merger happening while so many are working differently today, many of our employees have felt more change in the past year than they have in their entire careers.

			Regardless of how many employees you have at your organization, there’s no way to make every employee happy all the time—so we focused hard and thoughtfully on making benefits equitable across various stages of life. We also worked hard to ensure that employees coming from either company did not feel we went backward in any area.

			We actively capture employee feedback—as well as feedback from pulse surveys, open forums on UKG Today, our engagement surveys, in Great Place to Work surveys, and by encouraging employees to speak with their managers and HR business partners—as we look to continually enhance our benefit offerings well into the future of UKG. We will never be done or completely satisfied in this area. There will always be opportunities for improvement.

			What I enjoyed about this conversation with Almeda is that the steps he talked about using to merge two established benefit plans are the same ones that we can use to create a plan for the first time. Regardless of which one you’re doing—creating or merging—as he mentioned, it’s tough. There are lots of decisions to be made and we often don’t make everyone happy. But, if we make decisions in alignment with company values, and if we’re transparent about how we made those decisions, then I believe employees will respect the process.



			Figure 5.2 Planning Employee Benefits





Ten Employee Value Proposition Terms You Should Know


			As I mentioned, every organization must decide for themselves what their EVP will be. There are so many options. A first step to creating a good EVP is knowing what options are available so they can be considered, even if they’re not adopted. Here are ten definitions to get you started.

			Total Rewards

			SHRM defines a total-rewards strategy as a system implemented by a business that provides monetary, beneficial, and developmental rewards to employees who achieve specific business goals. The strategy combines compensation and benefits with personal growth opportunities inside a motivated work environment. If the organization is thinking about developing a total-rewards strategy, there are several ways to do it: (1) you can use the approach that Almeda from UKG shared earlier in this chapter, or (2) you can use a design model like ADDIE. (I promise we’ll talk about ADDIE in Chapter 6, Learning and Development).

			Compensation

			There are two forms of compensation. The first is direct compensation, which refers to the wages paid by an employer to the employee in exchange for their work. Wages are fixed regular payments typically paid on a daily or weekly basis. For example, Joe is making a wage of $20/hour.

			Another form of wages is salary, and there are three different types of salary arrangements. A straight salary is when an employee receives a fixed amount. Example: Sylvie is making a salary of $50,000/year.

			Straight commission is a payment method often used for salespeople. The employee receives an agreed-upon percentage of the revenue they bring to the organization, and the commission structure can increase over time. Sometimes employees can “draw” or receive monies in advance of their commission.

			Salary plus commission combines two previously mentioned types. The employee receives a fixed amount (usually smaller than straight salary) plus commission (usually smaller than straight commission).

			The second type of compensation is variable pay. It is typically in the form of short- and long-term incentives like bonuses, commissions, and stock awards.

			Incentive pay is traditionally defined as bonus payment awarded for performance or a specific result. Types of incentive pay include annual incentive plans, spot awards, a discretionary bonus, and a retention bonus.

			Differentials are paid when an employer is willing to compensate an employee additional money to accept certain assignments. Common types of differentials include shift premiums, hazard pay, and geographic differentials, which can be different from a cost-of-living adjustment.

			Cost-of-living adjustments (or COLAs) are an increase in wages provided to an employee to bring their pay in line with the cost of living to maintain purchasing power in a particular location.

			Stock Options

			This is basically a way for employees to purchase a certain amount of company stock at a specific price during a specific period. Typically, an option will also have an expiration date. The benefit to employee stock options is that employees can invest in the organization with lesser risk and potentially receive a greater profit. The downside is that the company stock could diminish in value or even become worthless, which doesn’t make the stock option attractive.

			Broadbanding

			This is the practice of having fewer but larger salary ranges. Broadbanding as a compensation strategy places greater emphasis on employee development versus promotion, since employees will stay in a salary range (i.e., band) for a longer period. We’ll talk about the advantages and disadvantages of broadbanding later in this chapter.

			Benefits

			Employee benefits are nonfinancial compensation provided to an employee as part of their EVP. Benefits could be required by law, associated with the job or industry, or provided voluntarily by the employer. There are several categories of benefits. Here are five of the most common:

			 				Health-related insurances such as medical, dental, vision, and disability policies and spending accounts.

				Life insurance, including accidental death and dismemberment (AD&D).

				Retirement, including 401(k) and 403(b) plans.

				Well-being benefits such as employee assistance programs (EAP), childcare, and eldercare.

				Education-related benefits, including tuition reimbursement and student-loan repayment.



			Perquisites (a.k.a. Perks)

			These are nonfinancial offerings beyond wages and benefits. They are often tied to an employee’s position, as in “perks of the job.” While perks are items that contribute to company culture, they typically aren’t drivers of employee engagement. Examples might include gym memberships, pet insurance, free lunches or snacks, nap rooms, walking clubs, and so on.

			Workers’ Compensation

			This is a type of business insurance that helps to cover medical expenses when an employee is injured on the job.

			Severance

			This is a package offered to employees who are being laid off from their jobs. A severance package typically includes a monetary payment such as X weeks of pay based on the employee’s years of service with the company. It often includes provisions for extended benefits, specifically in health care. Sometimes, it includes outplacement services to help the employee find a new job. Employees being offered severance might be asked to sign a severance agreement to receive the package, waiving all rights to sue the company.

			Leaves

			There are leaves, like the Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA), that we’ll cover in the legal sections of the book. In addition to legally required time off, organizations might offer paid parental leave, paid or unpaid time off for volunteerism, and paid or unpaid sabbaticals.

			Paid Time Off

			This is a personal time-off policy that provides employees with a certain number of hours that can be used at an employee’s discretion. PTO is a huge component of EVP because it can align with leaves, flexible scheduling, well-being programs, and so on.

			More about Paid Time Off

			Since PTO is a common employee benefit and has some flexibility in how it is administered, I wanted to share some additional information beyond just a definition. An HR Bartender reader once asked about a particular type of PTO called front-loading PTO, and I thought you might find it interesting. To help understand more about front-loading PTO, I reached out to the total-rewards subject matter experts at WorldatWork.

			Sharlyn Lauby: What is front-loading PTO?

			WorldatWork: Front-loading PTO is a time-off benefit program/policy that awards an amount of time (typically hours) for each employee at the beginning of each year (either calendar or fiscal). Time is also generally awarded on a prorated basis for new hires.

			An example would be an organization that wants employees to have roughly three weeks paid time off a year to cover vacation, sick, and personal time so they award each employee 120 hours of PTO on January 1 of each year.

			Lauby: How does front-loading PTO differ from a traditional PTO policy or unlimited paid time off?

			WorldatWork: Traditional PTO policies generally use an accrual methodology. This method allows employees to earn or accrue a certain amount of PTO per pay period and employees build up a bank of PTO over time. In the example, if the same organization had twenty-four pay periods, an employee would accrue five hours per pay period (160 hours / 24 = 5).

			Unlimited PTO is another paid time off policy increasing in popularity, especially for exempt employee populations. This method allows employees to take as much time as needed each year without regard to PTO balances. It’s typically up to each employee’s manager to monitor and calibrate employees who are either not taking off enough time or are taking too much.

			Lauby: It sounds like one of the key differences in PTO, front-loading PTO, and unlimited PTO plans is how they are applied to the financials/balance sheet.

			WorldatWork: Correct. Accrued or traditional PTO is an accrued liability on the balance sheet as it is earned. If an employee leaves, cash out of earned but not used time is required in most states. With front loaded PTO, there’s full liability on the balance sheet the day the PTO is granted. If an employee leaves, then the company will typically complete a full cash out (as required in most states). Lastly, with unlimited time off, there’s no accrued liability on the balance sheet and it’s not cashed out upon termination.

			Please note that the results of the recent WorldatWork survey, 2020 Inventory of Total Rewards Programs and Practices (December 2020), indicated that 12 percent of participating companies now offer unlimited paid time off programs.

			Lauby: Now that we know what front-loading paid time off is, why would an organization move to front-loading PTO policy?

			WorldatWork: There are several factors that employers take when considering this type of policy. It is very attractive to employees and can differentiate the employer when recruiting talent. It is easy to communicate to the employee population and easy to understand.

			Employees and new hires have the luxury of taking significant paid time off at the beginning of the year. For example, if an employee wants to take two weeks off in January for a ski vacation, this would be fully paid under a front-loaded PTO policy. Under an accrual policy, some or all this time off would either be unpaid, borrowed from future accruals, or not approved by the employee’s manager.

			Please note, an accrual plan may be considered easier operationally because the benefit is earned/managed as work is performed versus [being provided as] a vested benefit upfront.

			Lauby: If an organization is currently basing PTO payouts on length of service, how could an organization address payout when transitioning to a front-loading PTO?

			WorldatWork: This would really depend on the culture of the organization, state law requirements, and the provisions of the new plan that is established. Possible options include [the following]:

			 				Adding the front-loaded PTO amount to current PTO balance. This may result in an excessive unused PTO liability to the organization, but it is an option.

				Paying out the current accrued and unused PTO balances to each employee then front loading the new amount so all employees would start fresh based on the new front-loaded PTO award schedule.



			When considering payouts, the old PTO amounts would depend on state law and whether the full amount is payable under the employer’s policies. Generally, the employer could either roll it over to the new PTO, pay out the value of it, or preserve the existing old PTO benefits as a separate paid leave bank that they can continue to use.

			Lauby: Is there something that an organization can do to reduce the risk of an employee taking all their paid time off then leaving the organization under a front-loaded PTO policy?

			WorldatWork: Not really. This is the biggest disadvantage of front-loading PTO. However, there may be some solutions available, depending upon applicable state law and clear communication to employees on the organization’s policies in effect governing PTO benefits and use.

			Other solutions (as permitted by applicable law) may include capping the amount of PTO payout in the event of separation or implementing a waiting period to use front-load PTO benefits. PTO use is also governed by an organization’s PTO approval and use policies in effect. Organizations should ensure their policy states that use of PTO is subject to management approval and operational requirements.

			This WorldatWork interview highlights something HR professionals need to keep in mind when it comes to designing the EVP: accounting implications. Whether it’s how something is reflected on the balance sheet or how it’s taxed, it’s a component that must be taken into consideration.





Basic Philosophies, Models, and Theories Supporting Employee Value Proposition


			At the beginning of this chapter, we outlined the different types of “currencies” or components to the EVP. Figuring out the right ones for your organization involve understanding your strategy or philosophy when it comes to the EVP.

			Lead, Lag, or Match

			Every organization must decide whether to “lead, lag, or match” the market. Leading the market means that the company will provide the biggest and best there is to offer when it comes to EVP. They could also be the first ones to introduce a new employee benefit (like social justice PTO). Lagging the market means that the organization will be one of the last to adopt a new benefit trend, and matching means that the company offers basically what most of their competitive set offers when it comes to the EVP. The decision to lead, lag, or match usually involves answering two questions:

			 				Can the company attract candidates with our existing EVP?

				Can the company retain candidates with our existing EVP?



			There is absolutely nothing wrong with lagging or matching the market. Let me reiterate: There’s nothing wrong with not having a lead philosophy if the company can attract and retain talent. If the organization is unable to hire and keep employees, then re-examining the lead, lag, or match philosophy might be necessary.

			Red Circle, Green Circle, and Pay Compression

			Typically, an employee’s compensation falls within the pay range for the position. If your company is trying to create pay ranges, SHRM has a good “how to” guide on the subject that’s not a lengthy read. I’ve made a note of it in the references and resources section of this book.

			An employee who is paid more than the top end of a pay range is considered to be “red circled” or “redlined.” This can happen when you have a lot of employees with long tenure and very little mobility. Employees continue to get good performance reviews and pay increases, but there’s no place for them to go. Eventually, they make more than the high end of the range. It’s important to know when employees are red circled because the organization could be hurting the employee’s position in the job market.

			Depending on the number of employees who have been red circled, it’s possible that organizations will consider broadbanding. This allows the company to have larger pay ranges, so employees aren’t red circled. This is also one of the downsides of broadbanding: an employee who does good work could be paid more than the market rate for the job.

			To remedy redlining, the organization could discontinue giving the employee pay increases and give the employee a one-time bonus payment instead. This doesn’t change the employee’s base pay, and they still receive monetary recognition for their efforts. In this situation, the employee must understand why this is happening.

			On the other hand, an employee who is paid less than the minimum is “green circled” or “greenlined.” If an organization has green circled employees, they need to figure out how they will transition their pay to the minimum. An organization might simply give an employee a pay increase to the minimum salary. However, the company must think about their budget. If the number of employees who are green circled is high and the gap between their current pay and the minimum is large, the organization might want to put a tiered program in place where the employee receives regular increases to ultimately get them to the minimum.

			Organizations want to know when employees are greenlined because these individuals could easily be offered jobs with another company—that’s fair value for the market. Don’t mistake the concept of “lagging” the market as not paying an employee the minimum salary for the position.

			Speaking of pay-range minimum, it’s important to also recognize the dynamic of pay compression. Pay compression occurs when a new employee makes the same salary (or more) than a long-tenured employee. It can occur when organizations raise starting salaries and don’t evaluate how the starting salary compares to existing wages. Here’s an example: Let’s say we work in a warehouse. The starting salary for a warehouse sorter is $10/hour. The company has seen a lot of turnover lately and employees are saying in exit interviews that they’re leaving for a job that pays more. So, the company decides to raise the starting salary to $15/hour.

			On the surface, that sounds great. The company will be able to attract more candidates, and hopefully employees will stay longer. Looking at the current workforce, however, the company realizes they have dozens of employees who have been with the company for five-plus years who make $13/hour. Maybe the company has dozens of warehouse supervisors who make $16/hour. Pay compression is happening because wages, experience, and responsibilities are not in alignment.

			Organizations will want to make sure that any changes in pay ranges and starting salaries are in alignment with current employee wages. In addition, when the organization is in the process of bringing green circled employees to the minimum, it’s necessary to check for pay compression.

			Flextime

			In this chapter, we’ve talked about employee benefits like PTO and in Chapter 2, Talent Acquisition, we talked about the concept of build, buy, and borrow. It could make some sense for organizations to look at these two ideas together when it comes to creating jobs and the EVP.

			I’ve always been an advocate of the idea that every job does not have to be a full-time job. It might be advantageous to look at flexible work when creating jobs. Individuals who are caregiving, going to school, or thinking about a phased retirement might find jobs with flexibility attractive. Some individuals might simply want more flexibility.

			Keep in mind that flextime options available are going to vary based on the job, and even when there are multiple options to choose from, there will be pros and cons. The point here is to make sure organizations are considering all their options. There are several types of flexible work and scheduling options that organizations can consider:

			 				Part-time employment most of us are familiar with. It means a less-than-full-time workload and schedule. On-call or seasonal work isn’t guaranteed at the same levels as full-time or part-time, but it does offer employees the ability to have control over their schedules.

				Telecommuting means working from home. Organizations and employees need to think about what a work-from-home arrangement would involve in terms of technology, data security, in-person meetings, and so forth. Remote work means working outside of the office, which may or may not be at home.

				Compressed work weeks occurs when employees work four 10-hour days instead of five 8-hour days. The idea is that employees work the same amount of time in fewer days. I’ve worked for companies where employees who worked second or third shift received the benefit of a compressed work week.

				Flexible hours occurs when employees who come in early and leave early or come in late and stay late. Many organizations accommodate employee family requests in this way. There’s also a subset of flexible hours that might include a mealtime flex or vacation flex (i.e., unlimited vacation time).

				Job sharing takes place when two people work part-time instead of one person working full-time. I heard a story recently where two full-time school principals were planning their semiretirement and decided to job share instead of fully retire.

				Freelancing is the one option in which we’re not talking about employees. Freelancers are essentially outside contractors who are paid via the accounts payable system. It is an option, especially if that new contractor knows they’re getting a nice gig with their former employer at the start.



			If your organization is considering any of these options, it’s a good idea to think about what implementation might involve in terms of salary and benefits. Also, talk with your legal and risk management departments for their insights.

			Well-Being

			Well-being is defined as a state of being comfortable, healthy, or happy. Organizations have realized that when employees have well-being, they perform better at work. The best model I’ve seen for well-being comes from Gallup. It outlines five broad categories that are essential to most people:

			 				Career. You like what you do.

				Social. You have positive relationships in your life.

				Financial. You can effectively manage your money.

				Physical. You have good health.

				Community. You’re connected to the place where you live.



			In the past, organizations might have only focused on a couple of these categories, like career and maybe physical. In today’s work environment, organizations are paying attention to all of them. We see this in CSR efforts to create connection between the company and the community and in programs to expand mental-health awareness. One other aspect to well-being that’s getting a lot of attention is financial, and I want to elaborate on this one a little.

			I regularly read a personal finance newsletter from The Washington Post. A recent one talked about “unbanked” Americans (i.e., people who don’t have bank accounts). According to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), 7.1 million households don’t have bank accounts. Lower-income and minority populations are disproportionately represented in this number. Nearly 14 percent of Black households and 12 percent of Hispanic households are unbanked. In addition, the number of unbanked older adults is increasing.



			Figure 5.3 Gallup Employee Well-being Model

			When we talk about financial well-being, it’s important to remember equity. Unbanked employees should not be disadvantaged when it comes to getting and managing their pay. I think this is one of the reasons that organizations are very focused on financial well-being. Some payroll providers give employees the opportunity to review and approve their paycheck before payroll is processed. This reduces errors and gives employees better financial planning ability.

			Organizations are creating options for employees to receive their pay beyond direct deposit. Employees can receive pay at the end of their shift or have their salary placed on a debit card. While financial well-being is very employee centric (as it should be), that doesn’t mean organizations can’t also benefit. Here are three ways that employee financial well-being helps the organization:

			 				Recruiting. In the ADP Research Institute report on the evolution of pay, 84 percent of employers believe offering financial wellness tools will help attract top talent. Organizations can promote this in their recruitment marketing. It could be a contributing factor to a candidate saying “yes” to a job offer.

				Productivity. In a report from the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), 61 percent of HR professionals say that financial stress has an impact on work performance and 57 percent of employers say financial education boosts productivity. Organizations can include personal finance management tools as a part of the total employee well-being package. As observed in “The Evolution of Pay,” 90 percent of young Americans say they’re willing to share personal information with a payroll provider to obtain money management advice. Including a financial well-being component in an overall well-being strategy improves employee performance and productivity. It sends the message that the company is aware of employee stressors and is prepared to do something about it.

				Retention. Finally, organizations can use financial well-being to improve employee retention. I don’t have to tell you that if organizations (1) show employees that their needs matter and (2) make sure employees have the tools to meet their financial goals, it goes a long way toward achieving employee retention. This can help organizations make sure they’re not on the receiving end of a turnover tsunami.



			After all their hard work, employees want the freedom to manage their money their own way. Organizations can support that. They can show employees they care. Offering employees financial well-being doesn’t have to be complicated for the company or employees. When employees benefit, the organization benefits—in recruiting the best talent, in creating employee engagement, in increasing productivity, and in keeping talented people. It’s a win for everyone.





Legal Considerations for Your Employee Value Proposition


			While I’m sharing with you some new laws in this section, don’t forget that we’ve already covered some laws that apply here too, like The Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act of 2008 (a.k.a. GINA), in Chapter 3, Onboarding and Employee Engagement.

			The Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) is probably the biggest piece of legislation related to employee pay. The law includes the minimum wage, overtime calculations, child labor requirements, and the definition of work hours. There have been several amendments over the years including the Portal-to-Portal Act (1947) which clarified the definition of compensable hours when it comes to commuting and travel time.

			The Equal Pay Act of 1963 is an amendment to the FLSA that prohibits employers from discriminating between men and women by paying one gender more than another for equal work which requires equal skills.

			The Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA) provides eligible employees with a total of twelve weeks of job-protected unpaid leave for qualifying medical, new-child bonding, or military reasons. SHRM has a FMLA resource page for members, and the US Department of Labor also has a resource page for employers. On these resource pages, you can find information about employee eligibility, workplace postings, certification requirements and forms, and return-to-work guidance.

			The Employment Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) was passed in 1974 to protect the interest of participants and their beneficiaries in employee benefit plans. ERISA establishes standards of conduct for fiduciaries of employee benefit plans. It also prohibits discriminating against plan participants or beneficiaries for exercising their rights.





Technology and the Employee Value Proposition


			For this section, I want to start at a really high level and say that organizations should think about technology as part of the EVP. We use technology for a variety of reasons: to obtain information, to communicate with others, and to keep ourselves organized. If employees are forced to work with outdated technology, then they can’t do any of those things well. That impacts their work and ultimately, their performance, which in turn impacts their pay increases and promotional opportunities. In addition, if employees are working with outdated technology, they might be spending time trying to create workarounds so they don’t have to deal with the frustrations of sluggish tech. That’s not why most organizations hire people—to create workarounds. Companies want employees to work on the projects and tasks they’ve been assigned.

			I’m not implying that organizations should always have the latest technologies, but there’s a point where technology could be holding the employees and the company back, and that reflects on the EVP.

			The same philosophy applies to software like social media. If candidates apply to work at the company using mobile technologies or via a social platform like LinkedIn or Facebook, they expect to be able to use those things when they get hired. Part of the EVP could be giving employees a technology experience that matches their personal lives. We talked about how policies like BYOD (bring your own device) might help to create employee engagement and improve productivity in Chapter 3, Onboarding and Employee Engagement.

			This might be a good place to talk about technology and the employee value proposition along with remote and hybrid work. While the COVID-19 pandemic heightened the remote-work conversation, the reality is that remote work has existed for years. In 2019, the National Telecommunications and Information Administration reported that nearly one-third of American employees worked remotely. A similar study conducted in 2019 by OWL Labs indicated that most remote workers do so at different frequencies. Remote and hybrid work will continue to be a part of the conversation as we advance in the postpandemic era. Employees want it and it may save organizations money in terms of rent, utilities, and the like. Logic would say that if employees like it and it saves the company money, then it might make good business sense to do it. This is another reason for organizations to make technology a part of the EVP, and since organizations and individuals will rely on it even more to get work done and communicate, the technology should be good.

			One of the technologies that I immediately think of when it comes to the EVP is employee self-service. It provides employees with valuable information and it’s flexible to any workforce environment. I spoke with Jennifer Kraszewski, SPHR, SHRM-SCP, vice president of human resources at Paycom (a leading provider of comprehensive, cloud-based human capital management software), exclusively for this book about employee self-service technologies.

			Sharlyn Lauby: Jennifer, describe “employee self-service” to someone outside of HR.

			Jennifer Kraszewski: When used right with an employee usage strategy, employee self-service allows workers to manage their own HR information and employee data. Often, organizations can rely on HR and finance teams to handle expense reports, reimbursements, or commissions and expect them to do this seamlessly all the time. However, employee self-service helps prevent human error by allowing employees to manage and submit these things on their own, eliminating duplicative data entry. Think of all the things you do on your phone now, from ordering coffee or checking your bank account to watching the weather. Now think of all the things you always wished you could access on your phone related to your HR and work information—employee self-service should provide that.

			For example, with Paycom’s Employee Self-Service® (ESS) software, staff members have 24/7 access to payroll and HR transactions. In addition, Paycom’s newest platform, Beti™ (Better Employee Transaction Interface), is an industry-first technology that empowers employees to do their own payroll. Employees already manage their timecards, benefits, expenses, vacation requests—every important HR task that makes up payroll. Now they can take ownership over payroll too with an easy-to-use platform.

			Lauby: What’s the benefit to employees? To HR?

			Kraszewski: Employee Self-Service® provides access to all Paycom’s tools from one dashboard, allowing employees to easily access and manage their PTO and benefits, update their personal information, track hours and schedules, or manage expenses. New hires can onboard securely from their phone, and it even streamlines open enrollment in benefits programs. Instead of having to track down HR for answers to questions like “How much PTO have I accrued?” or “Did I actually sign up for that extra dental coverage?” employees are able to find the answers quickly and conveniently. Additionally, good self-service solutions offer two-way communication for employees to ask questions that are routed to the appropriate team or person for quick resolution through the same app.

			For HR teams, employee self-service means they can get out of administrative data entry and focus more on being a resource to employees and leadership. The right HR tech, like employee self-service, reaches its maximum value when all employees use it to complete necessary tasks like enrolling in benefits, requesting time off, updating personal information, engaging in learning opportunities, and more. Paycom’s comprehensive app empowers employees by directly connecting them to their HR data—anytime, anywhere. But the benefits don’t end with employees. Without having to play the middleman between employees and their information, HR is freed to focus on strategies that move their business forward.

			In addition, using employee self-service can help decrease data errors related to payroll and benefits reconciliations, saving HR time and allowing them to focus on human-oriented work. But the biggest benefit is eliminating risk and exposure because employees are entering and updating their own information. By getting HR out of the middle, they can spend more time on becoming a strategic business partner. This is a win-win for employees and employers, making processes faster and simpler.

			Lauby: Is there a challenge or downside to employee self-service?

			Kraszewski: Any friction HR can remove to help employees do their jobs more efficiently is greatly appreciated. Going back and forth with HR to change an address or update direct deposit information not only takes employees away from doing the job they were hired to do, but it also creates frustration. Today’s office workers rely on technology to get the job done; however, outdated technology and processes often cause more problems than solutions. A recent OnePoll survey found that 77 percent of employees get frustrated with outdated technology in the workplace, with the average respondent losing three hours of productivity per week due to tech and software problems. These tech frustrations—not to mention the wasted hours that result from them—caused 67 percent of employees to feel like their company doesn’t sufficiently prioritize updating its technology. With this in mind, nearly 70 percent of those asked said they would be willing to take a pay cut to have software and technology that’s twice as good as what they’re currently using. The right technology can improve allocation of resources, [cause] higher degrees of employee engagement, and increase efficiencies across the board. With employee self-service, workers should be able to access their information with one login, conveniently from the mobile app or computer. By empowering employees with easy access to their data, HR professionals can focus on business-forward initiatives instead of administrative burdens.

			I believe Jennifer’s comments bring up a great point about EVP and HR. There’s no rule that says the EVP has to be a burden to some aspect of the business. Technologies like employee self-service are valuable to employees because they give employees control over their data. They are great for HR and the organization because the technology allows them to focus on more human interactions. It truly creates a win-win.

			One last point about technology and the EVP: regardless of the technology that the organization decides to use, data privacy and security need to be a priority. Employees want to know their data is secure. They want to know that the information they enter into the company’s systems is secure. This aligns with the well-being conversation. Employees want the peace of mind that their personal information is secure.





Common Practices with the Employee Value Proposition


			Let’s start this section with what might be considered an emerging discussion. In the first episode of my podcast, The HR Bartender Show, Jim Stroud, vice president of marketing for Proactive Talent, mentioned a challenge for recruiters that revolved around location-based pay. During the pandemic, it had been reported that organizations were going tie pay to location. Facebook, for example, was one of those companies. So, if I worked for Facebook in California and during the pandemic I moved to North Carolina, my salary could be adjusted according to the North Carolina salary market.

			Since my conversation with Jim, I’ve seen an increasing number of comments from recruiters about location-based pay. I wanted to get some more information on the topic, so I interviewed Alicia Scott-Wears, GRP, CCP, GPHR, director of total rewards content at WorldatWork, for a primer on the role location plays in compensation. Here are some excerpts from that conversation published on HR Bartender:

			Sharlyn Lauby: Let’s start at the beginning. What’s a compensation system, what are the traditional factors found in a compensation system, and why should organizations have one?

			Alicia Scott-Wears: An organization’s compensation system or program entails mindset, approach, and delivery. The two factors that support a compensation program are

			 				The pay philosophy (or strategy), which sets the purpose and approach the organization intends, [and]

				The compensation structure, which leverages data to frame and deliver the intended pay strategy.



			To construct a framework from the most comparative segment to your organization, the common factors considered in building compensation structures are geographic location (or market), industry, and organizational size and revenue.

			Organizations benefit from an established compensation system to achieve common objectives like strategic alignment to the organization’s goals at an acceptable cost; attracting, motivating, and retaining top talent; having equitable, competitive, and legally defensible pay approaches; and providing a pay approach that is understandable and efficient to administer.

			Lauby: You mentioned geographic location or market as being a factor in building compensation structures. Why is that? And why is that a challenge right now?

			Scott-Wears: Companies want to be competitive and pay fairly and equitably, so location has typically been a consideration in determining compensation because it reflects the competitive or going rate for talent in a geographic market.

			Recently, challenges have arisen due to significant increases in remote work. Many workers are asking to voluntarily relocate and take their newly remote job with them. In some cases, this has drastically changed where work gets performed and where talent resides—often in locations where organizations did not previously have operations or employees.

			Organizations are now choosing whether to leverage remote jobs to expand into new geographic markets where they can source talent. They are also evaluating overall geographic pay policies to determine whether to consolidate geographic pay policy by region, expand by metro area, or to perhaps go with a national structure for geographically disperse remote workforces.

			Lauby: Do cost-of-living adjustments (COLAs) play any role in this challenge? Why or why not?

			Scott-Wears: Cost of living may be a consideration for some, but most organizations are more focused on cost of labor. WorldatWork’s recent Geographic Pay Policies Study found that 91 percent of respondents indicated that cost of labor was highly influential in determining their geographic pay policy approach.

			Cost of living is related to consumer costs, but when organizations are aiming to achieve market-competitive pay rates, the goal is to assess the relevant talent costs. Using cost of labor, they are seeking to align employee pay with the comparative cost of attracting and retaining talent in that geographic market.

			Lauby: What are the advantages and disadvantages to not using location in compensation design?

			Scott-Wears: Whether or not to use location in compensation design is a strategic decision for competitive positioning of the organization. It may only be relevant to those with notable variations in cost of labor based on geography and whether that geography is determined on worker location or employer location.

			Where such variations exist, there is the potential for under- or over-paying if additional location consideration is not given. This could have recruitment, retention, and cost implications. Historically, location has not been a factor for certain roles, like top executives, and instead a national rate approach may be applied, as this encompasses nationwide locations rather than a specific location. Overall, organizations will determine the right fit that allows them to attain a competitive and equitable approach that aligns with their culture and goals.

			Lauby: Last question. Right now, some organizations are telling employees that they can live and work wherever they want, but their pay might be adjusted. Are there any suggestions you would give to employers considering this move?

			Scott-Wears: My first suggestion would be for organizations to thoroughly think through how their pay philosophy and organizational culture will align with, or be supported by, their geographic pay practices.

			I also recommend careful consideration of the “anywhere” approach, even just within the United States because this can entail legal establishment, additional administrative expertise, and costs for things like payroll setup, taxes, unique state laws and disclosures, and workers’ compensation. I would also recommend that they consider their level of transparency around work from anywhere, consider how broadly it will be communicated, and to what detail. They should monitor and analyze the alignment of their practice with their policy to avoid any unintended pay equity issues.

			And finally, I would recommend they have a thorough plan for enablement which may include

			 				Coaching managers on managing a remote workforce;

				Remote-conducive methods for achieving recognition, ongoing engagement, and well-being; and

				Optimized electronic processes and tools for effectiveness and efficiency.



			This conversation with Scott-Wears about location-based pay is just one of many that we are seeing in the postpandemic workforce. Organizations need to take a hard look at their culture and what they want the employee experience to look like when making these types of decisions.

			You’ve probably noticed that I’ve said more than once in this chapter that organizations need to make some decisions in which the EVP is concerned. As a result, I could see some organizations choosing to legacy certain benefits, meaning that a benefit applies to existing employees but not to new employees.

			If the organization is thinking about making changes to their benefits package, there could be legal implications. On HR Bartender, I interviewed Samuel Hoffman, a partner and business lawyer in Foley & Lardner LLP’s California office. He represents health care providers and government entities in employee-benefit matters such as pension plans, compensation, and bonus programs.

			Sharlyn Lauby: Sam, in your experience, is it a common practice to legacy an employee benefit? Also, is it something usually found only with senior-level positions?

			Samuel Hoffman: Employee benefits are commonly legacied, but it is not the general rule. It can and does occur both at the senior level and at the rank-and-file level.

			Lauby: What are the pros and cons associated with “legacy” benefits?

			Hoffman: The pros are you keep valuable employees happy by not having to take something away from them. The potential cons include

			 				Increasing administrative complexity and the possibility for making mistakes,

				Creating nondiscrimination testing problems (such as with qualified retirement plans or self-funded health insurance programs) and,

				Engendering disgruntlement among the newly hired workforce that does not enjoy the benefits that have been legacied to the longer service employees.



			In my experience, the disgruntlement problem is most pronounced when a more junior employee is receiving a benefit that is more valuable than the benefit being received by the employee’s boss.

			Lauby: When should organizations consider offering a legacy benefit?

			Hoffman: There are two scenarios when an organization should consider a legacy benefit:

			 				When an employer has a valuable employee who they believe would be disgruntled or perhaps leave if they lost a particular benefit or level of benefit accrual, or

				When the employer has a legal or contractual obligation to continue a certain level of benefits for the employee (such as an executive employment agreement, a collective-bargaining agreement, or with certain governmental employers that may have constitutional obligation to protect benefit levels for current employees, etc.).



			Except where a legacy benefit is legally required, an employer should carefully consider whether the pros in employee retention or satisfaction for the employee or employees receiving the legacy outweighs the administrative and employee relations cons of providing the legacy benefits.

			Lauby: I’m curious, are there options that organizations can consider before they legacy a benefit?

			Hoffman: Yes, before accepting the administrative, possible nondiscrimination testing, and employee relations burdens associated with a legacy benefit for an employee or subset of employees, the employer should ask itself whether the valuable employee or employees that the employer wishes to keep happy could be satisfied with some other alternative.

			For example, the employer could provide a one-time bonus payment to the employee or an alternative enhancement to other areas of benefits that the employer is prepared to offer to all employees generally. The employer should balance the potential cost savings of a change in benefits and the employee relations issues, both for the valuable continuing employee(s) and the valuable new employees, before embarking upon a commitment to legacy a particular level of benefits.

			Lauby: I know we’ve been discussing legacy benefits. Let’s switch to eliminating benefits. What if an organization needs to phase out or eliminate a benefit to put a new one in its place or because it doesn’t align with the company’s compensation philosophies? From a legal perspective, what should organizations be aware of when it comes to the elimination of an employee benefit?

			Hoffman: For all benefits that are voluntarily provided by the employer, the employer should be able to terminate them prospectively. The first thing that employers should think about before eliminating voluntarily provided benefits is what sort of notice requirements there are for such termination, arising either by statute or regulation, by the terms of the plan document, or both.

			The best approach is to start by looking at your plan document and determining what it says about termination and notice. For health insurance benefits, you will generally need to give sixty days’ advance notice if you have more than fifty employees and are subject to the Affordable Care Act’s summary of benefits and coverage requirement. For other types of benefits, advance notice is advisable but not required and will be governed on a contractual basis by what the plan document says.

			The employer should also consider the employee rights to previously accrued benefits, which in many instances are legally required to be maintained, such as vested retirement benefits or even unvested retirement benefits, which the employer will be required to allow the employee to continue accumulating time toward vesting, even after the retirement plan is frozen.

			Also, many states require that any vacation or paid time off (PTO) that has accrued be preserved, even if the benefit is discontinued going forward.

			Generally, my advice would be that if you are going to eliminate any benefit prospectively, that you preserve any previously accrued unused benefits under the program. This is advisable from both a legal and an employee-relations perspective. You should also consider whether eliminating any particular benefit will have an adverse impact on your employee relations that will outweigh the savings, both in administrative time and money.

			Lauby: Another time that I’ve seen companies consider eliminating a benefit is when employees don’t use it very much. But it’s hard to say to employees, “You’re not using this benefit, so we’re going to take it away.” Are there some best practices that employers might want to consider when it comes to underutilized benefits?

			Hoffman: As a general employee relations proposition, I find that it is generally a good idea to offer some new benefit when you are eliminating one that is underutilized. If that is not possible, then it is recommended that you, in communicating with employees about the change, let them know that the money you are saving by discontinuing this underutilized benefit will be used to either preserve the remaining benefits or perhaps enhance some of them, such as you could offer more PTO or sick leave if you eliminated another benefit, and so on.

			Lauby: If employees complain once the company makes the announcement to eliminate a benefit, what are the pros and cons of changing your mind?

			Hoffman: Whenever an employer decides to eliminate a benefit, there is a calculus that the employer will perform where it weighs the savings from eliminating the benefit against the cost in employee relations and legal risk. If, after a decision to eliminate a particular benefit has been announced, the amount of negative feedback the employer receives is greater than it anticipated, there is nothing wrong with reversing the decision and turning that reversal into a virtue by saying that “We listened to you and heard that this is really an important benefit to you, and therefore decided to retain it after all.”

			If, on the other hand, the number of complaints are isolated, then it is perfectly reasonable to go to those employees and tell them that while you understand that the benefit was important to them, on a broader employer-wide basis, it was not particularly valuable and it was better for the employees in general to offer the new benefit or the new-enhanced existing benefit in place of the existing one that is being eliminated. If you can find some way to work with the employee to transition them through whatever hardship is occasioned by eliminating the benefit, that is to be explored; otherwise, you simply express sympathy and continue to move forward with your decision.

			I hope you found Hoffman’s comments beneficial. Employee benefits are a tricky and sometimes emotional subject. They represent value to employees, so organizations need to handle them with care. Further, if you have specific situations, you should reach out to your legal counsel for guidance.





Measuring the Employee Value Proposition


			There are three areas of focus when it comes to measuring EVP. The first is going to be the popularity of the component. Do employees like it? Organizations should be able to ask employees if they like a particular component of EVP during surveys, one-on-one meetings, stay interviews, and even exit interviews. In addition to receiving anecdotal information from employees, organizations could ask employees to rate a component of EVP on a scale. For example, rate your satisfaction with the company’s PTO policy on a scale of 0 to 6 (0 = no opinion, 1 = very unhappy with it, 6 = totally thrilled with it). This would allow the organization to collect some empirical data.

			The second area of measurement is utilization. Do employees use it? The company can see generating a utilization analysis whether employees use the tuition reimbursement program or the employee assistance program. If you have a third party administering a specific benefit such as health insurance, they might be able to offer a breakdown of employee utilization of benefits. For example, the company might have added a gym benefit to the health insurance plan, and you want to know if employees are using it. Utilization reports can offer some insight into whether employees like the benefit because they’re using it.

			The third area of measurement is how much the benefit costs. Organizations might track benefit costs as a percentage of payroll or year over year. The cost of a benefit as a standalone number might not tell us a lot, but using it in conjunction with other EVP-related metrics could offer insights. For example, maybe one of the most popular benefits for employees costs very little or a benefit with a significant cost isn’t being utilized. The other aspect to cost that’s important is letting people know the value of the EVP. Personally, I can’t begin to tell you how many times employees were shocked to learn the cost of their benefits package. They had no idea how much money the company was spending. In retrospect, it might be valuable to share that information.

			There is one last measurement to consider, and this one is specifically compensation focused. Compa-ratio is the metric that compares a salary to the midpoint of a pay range. Basically, it’s an employee’s current salary divided by the midpoint. Some people will multiply the answer by one hundred to get a percentage.

			A compa-ratio under one (or one hundred depending on how you calculate it) means the employee is being paid less than the midpoint, and a compa-ratio greater than one means they’re being paid more than midpoint. Organizations look at compa-ratios to determine if they are compensating employees correctly. The idea is that new, inexperienced, or unsatisfactory performers should have a compa-ratio of less than one while fully competent and outstanding performers should have a compa-ratio of greater than one.

			In an article on the website of the HR consultancy Astron Solutions, they provide five zones of compa-ratio, each associated with a predefined level of performance:

			80–87 percent: New, inexperienced, or unsatisfactory performance.

			88–95 percent: Gaining experience but not yet fully competent in the job.

			96–103 percent: Fully competent performing the job as defined.

			104–111 percent: Consistently performing at a level higher than what the job definition requires.

			112–120 percent: Universally recognized as outstanding, both inside and outside the company.

			Organizations can also monitor the compa-ratio to identify employees who could be approaching redlined status.





Additional Resources on Employee Value Proposition


			I realize that one of the biggest elements to EVP is compensation, and a big part of compensation is understanding if the organization is offering competitive wages. Don’t forget that many professional associations offer benchmarking services that can provide your organization with compensation data.

			Ellig, Bruce R. The Complete Guide to Executive Compensation, 4th ed. New York: McGraw Hill, 2022.

			We didn’t spend much time on the topic of executive compensation in this chapter because, well, it’s unique. Executive compensation covers a handful of people in your organization and can be structured very differently depending on your business. The good news is that if you need to research details about executive compensation, this book by Bruce Ellig is a great place to start.

			Compensation Café Blog. https://www.compensationcafe.com.

			I’ve been reading the Compensation Café blog for years. The writers are compensation professionals, and it produces regular content on all things related to compensation. You can subscribe via email or RSS (real simple syndication).

			Ain, Aron J. WorkInspired: How to Build an Organization Where Everyone Loves to Work. New York: McGraw-Hill Education, 2019.

			This is not a typical CEO business book and it’s not filled with fluffy business jargon. Aron Ain is the founder of Kronos and current CEO of UKG. In Work Inspired, Ain talks about the successes and challenges of building a great place to work. If you’re looking for a practical conversation about building culture, this is the book.

			Bush, Michael C. A Great Place to Work for All: Better for Business, Better for People, Better for the World. Oakland, CA: Berrett-Koehler Publishers, 2018.

			Speaking of great places to work, this book by Michael Bush shares research based on the FORTUNE 100 Best Companies to Work For rankings about what it takes to become a great employer and some of the trends employers should consider for the future.

			Bogue, Terri, and Robert Bogue. Extinguish Burnout: A Practical Guide to Prevention and Recovery. Alexandria, VA: Society for Human Resource Management, 2019.

			In today’s workplaces, organizations must think about employee well-being. That means making sure that employees can take care of themselves and not become overwhelmed and burned out. This book talks about the causes of burnout and offers resources to help. As we think about EVP, we need to think about the ways we can show employees their well-being matters.





Organizations Need to Show Employees “More Than the Money”


			There’s a famous line in a very old movie titled Jerry Maguire where football player Rod Tidwell (played by actor Cuba Gooding Jr.) says, “Show me the money!” to his agent Jerry Maguire (played by actor Tom Cruise). If we take that line at face value, we might be tempted to think that all employees care about is the money.

			The truth is employees want more than money. Employees are willing to work and work hard. In exchange, they want organizations to give them value. That value includes good working conditions, supportive managers, and, yes, a competitive pay and benefits package. It also includes learning and development, which is the focus in the next chapter.





OceanofPDF.com





Chapter 6


			Learning and Development


			 				Why Is Learning and Development Important?

				Ten Learning and Development Terms You Should Know

				Learning and Development: Philosophies, Models, and Theories

				Legal Considerations in Learning and Development

				Learning, Development and Technology

				Common Practices in Learning and Development

				Measuring and Evaluating Our Learning and Development Efforts

				Additional Learning and Development Resources

				Learning Is about More Than Putting in the Time





Why Is Learning and Development Important?


			The heading to this section sounds like one of those “What’s the meaning of life?” questions. Learning and development are important because we need to keep learning. I know the words “lifelong learner” are becoming a bit cliché, but there’s truth in them.

			The world is changing and evolving around us, so we need to change and evolve. The way we do that is with learning and development.

			Over the past decade, we’ve seen the introduction of breakthrough devices like smart home thermostats, tablet computers, and self-driving cars (just to name a few). These inventions change the way we live and work. We simply can’t ignore them, and we don’t want to.

			Smartphones are allowing us to connect with candidates and employees easily. Tablet computers can provide managers with real-time data about their workforce while they’re out in the operation versus stuck behind a desk. Organizations can pay employees daily via online banking technologies, so they can better manage their personal finances.

			Yes, it’s true all those examples involve technology. Not all the latest inventions are tech, but many of them are. It just proves the point that we need to continuously learn and grow, even if it’s to keep up with technology.

			There is something to keep in mind when we’re talking about learning and development: every challenge an organization or individual faces cannot necessarily be solved with learning. You’ll see this definition again later, but learning is “knowledge acquired through experience, study, or being taught.” Organizations convey information all the time, but that’s not necessarily learning.

			That’s why it’s important to know how to determine whether learning is a solution. Here are three examples that happen frequently in organizations:

			 				Someone on the senior leadership team asks someone to implement a training program.

				A manager needs to correct a performance issue with an employee.

				The company is making a change that involves a new process or procedure.



			Whether it’s training for one person or one hundred people, for learning to be effective, it must be connected to a business metric. Some common business metrics include sales revenue, employee turnover, manufacturing defects, customer complaints, and so on. Whenever a learning event takes place, you want to know what the business metric is both before the event and after the event to compare the impact.

			If a business metric doesn’t exist, then it’s not learning. As I mentioned earlier, it could be conveying information but it’s not learning. Remember that learning provides a person with knowledge. That knowledge is then used in the employee’s job. Even with topics that might appear on the surface as not quantifiable, there’s a metric that can be attached. It may take some extra searching. For example, the metrics for anti-harassment training might be percentage of participants who have taken training or percentage of participants who completed training within the first month of hire. This aligns with the company’s goal of maintaining business compliance.

			Another example is stress-management training. It’s possible that conducting this type of training could reduce sick days, complaints to human resources about being stressed out, or comments in exit interviews about high stress levels. Again, look for the connection between the goals of the business and the training topic.

			So let’s explore a common scenario when it comes to learning and making the decision of whether learning is the right solution: The vice president of operations comes into your office and says, “We need time management training for our supervisors. They just can’t seem to get anything done.”

			Can you offer a time-management training program? I’m sure of it. You could create one yourself or call a consulting company to do it for you. It could be a fabulous program. The supervisors tell you they loved it. The real question is if will it fix the problem, and we don’t know if it will. Time management could very well be an issue. But in relationship to what? Is it because the supervisors can’t deliver projects on time? Or it is because a customer complained about a delivery being late? Training must tie to a business measurement.

			After identifying the business metric, it’s time to determine if training is necessary. Here are three questions you can ask to determine if training is the viable solution:

			 				Does the person have the skills to do the task?

				Does the person have the desire to do the task?

				Is the person allowed to do the task?



			If the answer to all three questions is yes, then training is not the answer. It could be an equipment problem.

			If the answer to the first question is no, training may or may not be the answer. The answer could be coaching.

			A no to the second question means you may have a motivation problem.

			A no to the third question might mean a policy or procedural issue.

			Let’s use the time management scenario again. Maybe the reason supervisors can’t deliver on time isn’t that they have poor time-management skills but rather because the copier has been broken for the past two weeks.

			Another reason the supervisors might not deliver on time is that the regional manager has told them it doesn’t matter how good the project deliverable is because the vice president isn’t going to approve it. The supervisors aren’t motivated to finish a project that won’t get approved anyway.

			Lastly, what if the reason that the supervisors can’t get the project completed is that the regional manager changed the scope of the project three times in the last week? The supervisors have no clue what they need to be working on.

			So again, while the company could very well need time-management training, it’s important to ask a few questions and confirm before jumping into a learning event commitment.

			I’m a big fan of learning and development. However, when learning and development activities are conducted for the wrong reasons, it hurts the outcome, both short and long term. Short term, employees don’t get the solution they need to perform. That’s the goal of learning and development. Employees receive knowledge they can use in their jobs, which will have a positive impact on business goals.

			Long term, the organization might shy away from future learning events, even when they really need them. It makes the request for training even harder to justify. I’ve been in rooms where the senior management team has said, “Training? Nah, remember the last time we had a training session? It didn’t change a thing.” And they’re right; it didn’t change a thing since it was the wrong solution.

			Learning and development is so incredibly important to the organization. That’s why it needs to be used at the right time and for the right reasons.





Ten Learning and Development Terms You Should Know


			You might notice in reading these definitions that some seem very similar. And you would be right. Some of the words in this section are often used interchangeably. Moving forward, you don’t have to correct managers who say team building instead of team development, but it might be good to ask a few questions to make sure that everyone is on the same page. If the manager says team building and you deliver team building but they really meant team development, well, it’s not going to end the way anyone wants it to.

			Competencies

			Competencies are a set of skills necessary to be successful. An excellent example of a competency would be the SHRM BASK. The model is a set of ten competencies that have been validated as necessary to be a successful HR professional. Competencies can be technical or behavioral. In the case of the SHRM BASK, there’s one technical competency called HR Expertise. There are also nine behavioral competencies: Ethical Practice; Diversity, Equity & Inclusion; Relationship Management; Communication; Consultation; Leadership and Navigation; Global Mindset; Analytical Aptitude; and Business Acumen. Together, these nine competencies provide the foundation for human resources professionals.

			If you want to learn more about the SHRM BASK, visit the SHRM website. There’s an interactive page that allows you to review the definition for each competency as well as a book that shares how HR professionals are using the model as part of their learning and development.

			Learning

			Learning is knowledge acquired through experience, study, or being taught. The best way to describe learning might be by comparing it to training. The act of teaching someone a skill or behavior is training. Think of training as being about the person who is doing the teaching. Learning is about the attainment of knowledge or skills. It’s about the participant. An organization can conduct training. Sadly, that doesn’t always mean learning took place. Learning can happen outside of training. For example, it can occur in a mentoring session.



			Figure 6.1 The SHRM BASK

			Self-Directed Learning

			Self-directed learning happens when individuals take the initiative, with or without the help of others, to diagnose their learning needs, formulate their learning goals, identify the source for learning, implement the learning plan, and evaluate learning outcomes.

			Training

			Training is the act of teaching someone a specific skill or behavior. I like to think of training in the context of an employee’s current job. This differs from development, which is focused on an employee’s future opportunities.

			On-the-Job Training

			On-the-job training (OJT) is training and learning in the workplace versus a classroom or offsite environment. The advantages of OJT are the focus on hands-on activities (i.e., actually doing the skill), receiving immediate feedback, and reduced downtime. OJT can take minutes whereas a classroom session which might take hours. The disadvantages include that OJT might require an onsite trainer with extensive knowledge and there is the potential risk of teaching the wrong thing and creating bad habits.

			Career Planning

			Career planning has two components: career development and career management. Career development refers to the stages that an individual goes through during their career: exploration, establishment, midcareer, late career, and decline. Career development is often employee driven. It’s what the employee wants to do with their career.

			Career management is what the organization does in terms of selecting, coaching, training, and so on. It’s more company driven. Ideally, career planning is the bringing together of these two components—what employees want in terms of their career and what the organization is prepared to do in terms of development. Career planning works well when the two components are aligned, meaning what the employee and company want are the same. We will spend more time on career planning in the next chapter.

			Team Building

			Team building is an activity typically focused on role clarification, goal setting, and building interpersonal relationships. Often, team building activities occur as part of a training session or a retreat. It’s not the same as team development.

			Team Development

			Team development is about building specific teamwork competencies. It’s focused on developing the knowledge, skills, and abilities needed to be a good team player and work well with others. Examples might include decision-making, collaboration, and consensus building.

			Emotional Intelligence

			Emotional Intelligence (EI) is the ability to perceive, use, understand, manage, and handle emotions. There are several models of emotional intelligence, and some will refer to it as emotional quotient (EQ). It’s often portrayed as having four domains: self-awareness, self-management, social awareness, and relationship management.

			Self-awareness is about being aware of our own moods and thoughts. Self-management is defined as the ability to manage our own actions and thoughts. Social awareness is the ability to accurately notice the emotions of others (as in being able to “read the room”). Finally, relationship management is the ability to successfully manage social interactions, taking our emotions and the emotions of others in proper context.

			Interventions

			Interventions, also known as organizational development (OD), are structured programs designed to solve a problem, thus enabling an organization to achieve a goal. Intervention activities are designed to improve the organization’s functioning and enable managers and leaders to better manage their team and organization cultures. Interventions can be designed at an organizational, departmental, or group and individual level.

			Common intervention activities might include job redesign, organizational restructuring, team building, coaching, or mentoring.





Learning and Development: Philosophies, Models, and Theories


			The good thing about learning and development is there are plenty of proven models you can use to design programs. So if for whatever reason you’re not crazy in love with one model, do some homework. There’s probably a way to tweak the model you have to make it better, or maybe you will find another one that will be perfect.

			Adult Learning

			A central theory to workplace training, learning, and development is adult learning or andragogy. Malcolm Knowles, an American educator, was instrumental in explaining that the way we learn as adults is different from the ways we learn as children, which is why workplace learning should be designed differently from our school experiences. Here are the adult learning principles to keep in mind:

			 				Learning should be self-directed, meaning that adults need to be responsible for their decisions about learning. It’s one of the reasons that training mandates don’t always work as planned.

				The learning topic should be relevant to the learner. Adults want to know the “What’s in it for me?” (WIIFM) when it comes to learning.

				Learning activities should be experience based. This includes errors or making mistakes, which is why giving participants a safe place to practice is a successful learning strategy.

				Finally, the learning should happen just in time. Adult learners retain information and skills best when they learn something right before there’s a reason they will need it.



			It’s important to keep these principles in mind when the organization is making the decision to conduct a formal learning event, designing any type of learning, and creating a program objective.

			Instructional Systems Design



			Figure 6.2 The ADDIE Model

			Instructional systems design (ISD) is the process of how to design training. The oldest instructional design model that I’m aware of is called the ADDIE model. It was developed by Florida State University back in the 1970s. ADDIE is an acronym that stands for assessment, design, development, implementation, and evaluation:

			 				Assessment. An analysis is done to understand if training is the proper solution. Information is gathered about the audience who should receive the training. The business metric that would align with training is identified.

				Design. The training program objective is developed. This is the basis for the entire training program, and a weak objective will not sell the value of the program to senior leaders or participants. Check out the A-B-C-D objectives box for more detail on how to develop a learning objective.

				Development. This is the step where we develop the materials for the program—participant guides, facilitator guides, PowerPoint slides, activity instructions, etc.

				Implementation. The program gets launched. Sometimes it makes sense to do a pilot program and get some initial feedback from a smaller group before officially launching the program.

				Evaluation. The design team reviews feedback from participants, instructors, and managers. Adjustments are made to the program.



			 				 					 				 				 					 						 							A-B-C-D Objectives

							When you’re designing training, one of the first questions asked is, “What’s the program objective or purpose?” A weak objective won’t sell the value of the program. An example of a weak objective is one that uses weak verbs like as know, learn, understand, and appreciate. Here are a few weak learning objectives:

							 								Understand the four components of a learning objective.

								Be able to describe the four components of a learning objective.

								Our workshop will provide participants with the opportunity to learn the four components of a learning objective.



							Please don’t hate me for saying it because we all know it. And I’ll admit, on occasion, I’ve used those weak verbs myself. But there’s a better way. It’s called the A-B-C-D method for developing an objective. Here’s what the four letters represent:

							A—Audience is fairly self-explanatory. They are the participants.

							B—Behavior is the “thing” they need to know or do.

							C—Condition represents the support that is provided to the learner. It might be a book, job aid, video, etc.

							D—Degree refers to the required efficiency level.

							Here’s an example of an A-B-C-D objective: Given a complete copy of the book Setting Performance Goals, the participant should be able to accurately describe the four steps for setting a performance goal without error when given at least three opportunities to do so.

							In this example,

							A (Audience) is “the participant,”

							B (Behavior) is “accurately describe the four steps for setting a performance goal,”

							C (Condition) is “given a complete copy of the book Setting Performance Goals,” and

							D (Degree) is “without error when given at least three opportunities to do so.”

							You can use these four questions as a thorough way in developing an A-B-C-D objective:

							 								Who is the intended learner?

								What do they need to know or do?

								What kind of support will we provide?

								What is the degree of proficiency they need to have?





				 			 			Since the ADDIE model has been around for more than a few decades, there are some who feel that ADDIE isn’t as flexible as it needs to be. The good news is there are alternatives.

			The Successive Approximations Model (a.k.a. SAM) was developed by Dr. Michael Allen, founder of Allen Interactions and author of Leaving ADDIE for SAM. I like to think of SAM as a hybrid model between ADDIE and agile software development, in which a project is divided into milestones and evaluated after each. SAM has three phases—preparation, iterative design, and iterative development:

			 				Preparation is like the assessment phase of ADDIE where information is gathered and analyzed.

				Iterative design is similar to the design and maybe some of the development phase in ADDIE. The objective is created, and a draft of the program is designed.

				Iterative development includes the development, implementation, and evaluation phases of ADDIE.



			Between each phase, the designer would solicit feedback and make any necessary adjustments. Organizations might have a style in which they prefer for training programs to be developed. Designing training with a consistent model could make a lot of business sense, especially when it comes time to update training content. If the organization allows instructional designers to use the model of their choice, it could make sense to try more than one and determine which one supports your working style.

			Bloom’s Taxonomy

			Benjamin Bloom, an educational psychologist at the University of Chicago, created a classification system for objectives of learning. It is hierarchical, meaning the higher levels are dependent on having attained the prerequisite knowledge.



			Figure 6.3 Bloom’s Taxonomy

			Here’s an example of how Bloom’s Taxonomy might be used from a learning perspective:

			 				Remembering is being able to recall information. As a HR pro, I should be able to tell employees what the company’s technology guidelines are.

				Understanding means we can explain a concept, like why it is important for our computer password to have uppercase, lowercase, numerals, and symbols.

				Applying is having the ability to do something, such as updating a password correctly.

				Analyzing is being able to look at a situation and ask the right questions. For instance, looking at employee’s desk spaces to see if a possible data security threat exists.

				Evaluating is focused on making a determination, for example, after walking around the office and talking with employees who are violating the company’s technology guidelines.

				Creating means to recommend or develop as in new technology guidelines.



			Bloom’s Taxonomy is often used in the development of learning goals and objectives. It answers the question, “What level do participants need to work with the information?” If it’s just recall, then “remembering” might be fine as the level of the program. However, if it’s “evaluate,” that would involve a completely different type of learning event.

			Gap Analysis

			How many times do we talk about “bridging the gap” or “closing the gap” without going through the process of doing it properly? The purpose of a gap analysis is to identify where the organization is currently and where it would like to be (i.e., the “gap” between the current and desired state). A gap analysis can help the organization identify areas of improvement, uncover differences between business perceptions and reality, establish priorities, and ensure project requirements are accomplished.

			Here are the five steps that could help facilitate doing a gap analysis:

			Step 1. Identify the goal or problem to be examined. What is the scope of the analysis? The answer can’t be everything; it’s simply too broad. For example, in a staffing analysis, the goal is to understand the gap between current and future workforce skills.

			Step 2. Evaluate the current state. It’s critical during this step not to assume. Even if you think that you know the current state, use this opportunity to confirm your assumptions. Be prepared to ask a lot of questions. And please note, this isn’t the time to propose any solutions.

			Who: Who is involved in the situation or problem?

			What: What exactly is wrong?

			Where: Where is the problem taking place geographically?

Where is the problem taking place within the process?

			When: When was the problem first observed?

When did the problem begin?

			Extent: How widespread is the problem?

			Pattern: How does the problem play out over time?

			Step 3. Establish the ideal future state. The organization should reach consensus on the question, “If everything worked out according to plan, where would we be?”1 In the case of a staffing plan, the question becomes, “If everything worked according to our plan, what would our workforce look like in terms of available skills?”

			Step 4. Compare the current state with the future state. And quantify the gap. Let’s say that we analyze all the employees in our organization and realize that 20 percent of them aren’t proficient in the technology competency (i.e., little to no knowledge of word-processing software and spreadsheets). We might discover that of this 20 percent:

			 				Insufficient training caused 5 percent,

				Staffing challenges caused 7 percent,

				Budget cuts caused 2 percent, and

				Managers not sending employees to training caused 14 percent.



			Step 5. Summarize results and present recommendations. The results from Step 4 give us a path toward “bridging the gap” and prioritizing our efforts. Organizations can consider using a tool like SMART to develop goals. (Just a reminder, we covered SMART in Chapter 2, Strategic and Workforce Planning.)

			Organizations can use a gap analysis for many situations and having a consistent process will help keep the conversations focused. This allows the organization to use organizational resources effectively, maintain a reasonable timeline, and produce a result that aligns with the business.

			Change Management

			Many times, when we’re talking about learning, what we’re really doing is unlearning one thing and relearning something new. This involves change, so it seems logical to understand the process of change, whether that’s on an individual or organizational level.

			Everyone needs to deal with change. It doesn’t matter if it’s a change we’ve decided to make or one that’s forced on us. It also doesn’t matter if it’s small or big. In fact, sometimes it’s the small changes we decide to make ourselves that can be the most difficult.

			Regardless of the type of change you’re processing, it’s important to find a change-management model that works for you. Personally, I’ve always liked Lewin’s model. Kurt Lewin was a psychologist and major contributor in the areas of group dynamics and organizational development. His change model is very easy to remember, which is one of the reasons I like it:

			 				The unfreeze stage is where we realize that change is necessary and how it will impact us. We start thinking about how to create change.

				During the change step, we begin to do things differently. We work through the discomfort and challenges of changing our routine.

				Finally, in the refreeze phase, we acknowledge the new normal. This is also when we can celebrate the success of dealing with the change.





			Figure 6.4 Lewin’s Change Management

			The Refreeze Phase

			I recently learned another way of thinking about Lewin’s model that I thought was pretty creative. I was facilitating a SHRM seminar, “Organizational Development: Designing Successful Organizational Performance,” and we were talking about change interventions. One of the participants said they talk about change in terms of “pencils, pens, and Sharpies.” So I asked for permission to share their idea:

			 				Pencils represent those current processes, policies, or habits that we have. They can also be considered tentative. Things written in pencil can easily be erased and changed.

				Pens are things that become more permanent. It might be an action we plan to have for quite some time, but we still realize that at some point in the future it’s going to change.

				Sharpies are for those actions that are going to be around for a very long time. We want everyone to know about this change. Think bold and ingrained in our culture!



			I immediately liked this three-step approach because I could see it being used as part of organizational decision-making. For example, the group can agree that an idea is “ready to be penned” or we don’t have enough experience with this process to “document it in a Sharpie.” It also makes for a good visual.

			The next time your organization is going through a change-management process, think about where they are. Is the group still penciling? Or have they moved to pen? Maybe even Sharpie? It might help to guide the process change in a new and different way.

			Back to change management, some of you might be saying, “Do we really even need to refreeze? Shouldn’t we always be looking for ways to improve?”

			And the answer is yes! We should be always looking for ways to do things better. But I don’t believe that it means we should eliminate the refreezing phase in change management. Let me explain my thought process.

			Refreezing does two things: it establishes the new normal and allows people to celebrate. If we eliminate refreezing, then we don’t give people an opportunity to celebrate successfully going through the change process. The celebration is important, especially since we’re dealing with all sorts of changes at the same time.

			Celebrating change reminds people that they can do it. They are capable of change. The next time a person needs to deal with change, hopefully they remember the feeling of accomplishment and celebration more than the frustration of the change.

			The other thing that refreezing does is establish the new normal, which is equally important in my opinion. The new normal becomes the new benchmark or the new point of comparison in the change-management process, even if it’s for an hour or a day.

			Even when we’re going through changes that we want, like accepting a promotion or moving to a new city, change is hard. Being unsettled is hard. Refreezing allows us to say, “Ah, at last! No more change. At least for now,” even though we all know that another change is right around the corner. Refreezing is like a temporary moment where we get to take a break. And I think—no, I know—we need that. Yes, it might be a Jedi mind trick2 but that’s okay. For a few days or weeks, things are calm.

			There’s one other thing that refreezing can do in change management. It can allow organizations or individuals to stop and ask the question, “Do we need to change?” Every day, we’re told about better, faster, and cheaper ways of working or living. We can’t do them all. Refreezing allows us to say, “Should we try this? What are the pros/cons?” and compare the answers to our new normal. That doesn’t mean we won’t ever try it, but maybe not right now. Maybe our refreeze state is good enough for the time being.

			While change will always be a part of our lives, we don’t have to always be in a constant state of change, or at least not be in a constant state of major change. As individuals, having a few moments to stop, breathe, and celebrate our success can be exactly the motivation we need to tackle the next big change coming our way.

			Buy-In

			Speaking of the next big change, another aspect to change that can be helpful—especially when we’re talking about organizational change—is getting buy-in. Several years ago, I had the pleasure of hearing Dr. John Kotter speak about organizational change at a SHRM Annual Conference. Dr. Kotter is chief innovation officer at Kotter International, which works with organizations looking to undertake major change at a rapid pace. He’s also Konosuke Matsushita Professor of Leadership, Emeritus at Harvard Business School.

			Little did I know Dr. Kotter has written a whole book on the subject of getting buy-in to create change called Buy-In: Saving Your Good Idea from Getting Shot Down. Dr. Kotter spoke with me on my blog, HR Bartender, about creating buy-in and I wanted to share his thoughts with you.

			Sharlyn Lauby: From an organizational perspective, why is getting buy-in so important?

			John Kotter: Buy-in is critical to making any large organizational change effort happen. Unless you win support for your ideas from people at all levels of your organization, big ideas never seem to take hold or have the impact you want. Our research has shown that 70 percent of all organizational change efforts fail, and one reason for this is executives simply don’t get enough buy-in, from enough people, for their initiatives and ideas.

			Lauby: Are there ever circumstances when a person shouldn’t seek buy-in?

			Kotter: In some situations, you face someone I call a NoNo. This term is based on a character in my book, Our Iceberg Is Melting, which is a fable about life in a changing and turbulent world, set in a penguin colony. NoNo is one of the main characters, and you can imagine how he reacts to any new idea. He not only shoots them down but is very effective at convincing others to join his side. If you face a group of NoNos—or even just one—seeking their buy-in just won’t work. They will continually disrupt conversations and delay action, doing everything they can to discredit an idea and derail processes that attempt to create real change.

			NoNos are more than skeptics. If there aren’t too many of them, skeptics can actually be helpful: they can keep naïve impulses in check and, once they have been convinced their opinions are wrong, can become an idea’s biggest champions. But NoNos won’t be convinced. The only way to effectively deal with them is to distract them so they cannot create too many problems, push them out of the organization, or expose their behavior so natural social forces (i.e., other people who want change to happen) will reduce or stop it. My books A Sense of Urgency and Buy-in have more information on dealing with NoNos.

			Lauby: What do you say to the person who is reluctant to use buy-in because they don’t want to hear criticism or negativity?

			Kotter: I tell them that avoiding attackers doesn’t work, nor does quashing their attempts to block support from others. It’s far better to respectfully engage these adversaries and stand your ground with simple, convincing responses. By “inviting in the lions” to critique your idea, and preparing yourself for what they’ll throw at you, you’ll capture busy people’s attention, and that’s very important. Conflict engages. If people have no opinions, no objections, and no emotions, it usually means they don’t care, and you’ll be hard pressed getting their help when you have to actually implement your idea. But conflict shakes people up and gets them to pay attention in a novel way. This gives you the opportunity to say why your idea really is valuable and explain it in a way that wins over hearts and minds—securing their commitment to implementing the solution.

			The next time you’re in a meeting where someone is advocating for an idea, see if some conflict emerges. If it does, watch the group and see how people sit up and the energy level rises. Disagreement may seem like a bad thing—but it grabs people’s attention.

			Lauby: What’s the biggest mistake people make when trying to get buy-in?

			Kotter: There are a few of them. First, they don’t prepare enough. People often misunderstand “preparation” to mean just knowing their own idea forwards and backwards. But rehashing what you already know won’t help you avoid sounding defensive, frustrated, or even disrespectful when fielding question after question on your proposal or idea—all things that can derail a conversation and hurt your cause. We often don’t even know we come off this way until someone tells us.

			People really need to practice before they attempt to win buy-in from a large group. This means grabbing a colleague to role play, attack the proposal and practice real-life responses. Try testing your ability to defend your proposal live with select people who will be sympathetic, but who can really listen and provide honest feedback.

			I think another key mistake is thinking that you can win people over with lots of data, logic, and reasons why the attacks on your idea are wrong. Almost all education teaches us to think in this manner, but this approach can kill the crucial attention span I mentioned in my last answer. We’ve all seen eyes glaze over or people surreptitiously typing on their smartphones as meetings drag on and on. You really need to respond to dissenters with simple, clear, common-sense answers—this will slowly but steadily win an audience’s minds and their buy-in. And you have to complement this approach by responding in a respectful manner to those who disagree with you, no matter how much you want to fire back with fighting words. Enthusiastic support from large numbers of people is rarely the product of a nasty fight. If you treat the ones who attack your idea with respect, you’ll draw more people emotionally to your side. And emotions—what we often call “the heart”—are essential to changing behavior.

			Lauby: From your experience, what surprises people the most about using buy-in to create organizational change?

			Kotter: I think people are surprised at how well it works. A lot of people who reach senior leadership ranks have been schooled in traditional management training. They recognize a need to change, pick a task force of people (maybe the head of HR, a couple of midlevel managers, a senior VP) to oversee the change effort, assign the team their roles, and instruct them to make it happen. They don’t always articulate an opportunity for their organization and then communicate it widely to obtain a broad-based sense of urgency, from employees to pursue an exciting opportunity before pressing ahead. When they do, they’re often shocked to see how quickly changes can start happening. In our client work, we’ve found that choice motivates people to be far more committed to driving change than being told they have to do it. It engages people who are passionate about making their organization better, harnesses their enthusiasm, and empowers them to drive change. It’s something that seems very simple, but it’s rare for organizations and senior leaders to work this way.

			Organizations need to help employees process change because it happens all the time. The best way to do that is by providing them with an easy-to-use change model and teaching them how to use it. When employees are stuck, managers should encourage employees to use the model to get unstuck. Then, when the organization is going through a big change, the company can use the change model to guide the process.





Legal Considerations in Learning and Development


			When you’re thinking about legalities with learning and development, consider two things: (1) the content and (2) equity.

			From a content perspective, is the content that’s being delivered to participants legal? We can’t teach individuals to do illegal things. In fact, the organization could (and probably should) have educational programs that are designed to help employees understand when inappropriate activity is taking place and how to report it. Anti-harassment and ethics training sessions are examples of this.

			Equity in learning and development is aligned with the concept of equal employment opportunity, which we’ve mentioned in earlier chapters. Organizations can’t exclude a group of employees from learning opportunities because learning impacts job performance and future opportunities. So companies need to think about how and when employees receive learning and development—whether that’s an internal program or an external conference. It must be equitable for all.





Learning, Development, and Technology


			Technology can be used for learning in many ways: it can both create and deliver programs. In this section, we’ll talk about some of the most common uses for technology in a learning environment.

			Microlearning

			Microlearning is a form of learning that delivers content in small bite-sized pieces. It’s sometimes also referred to as “snackable” content. We use microlearning on a regular basis—we just don’t call it microlearning. Here’s a personal example: I wanted to roast a chicken and, to prepare the chicken for the oven, I wanted to truss it, but I didn’t know how to truss a chicken.3 I went to YouTube, found a two-minute video and voila! I now know how to truss a chicken. People are using short videos to learn all the time.

			Brevity is exactly why organizations might want to consider adding microlearning to their offerings. But it’s important to use microlearning the right way. Here are five things to consider when discussing microlearning as part of your current learning strategy:

			 				It’s easy to produce. Please notice I didn’t say cheap. Although by definition, microlearning would be shorter than standard training and therefore should be cost effective to produce, it’s possible an organization would have more microlearning options available. That being said, I can see microlearning topics being less complex to design and implement than, let’s say, a traditional e-learning project.

				It’s flexible. Microlearning can be classified as “on demand” if participants can access it whenever and wherever they wish. It could also be called “just in time” if it’s used to refresh, remind, or teach someone something immediately before they need it. For example, a manager may want to review the steps of counseling an employee right before meeting with them.

				It fits today’s technology. You’ve heard me mention several times in this book about making stuff easy to buy and easy to use, meaning that people who are trying to engage with the organization shouldn’t get the runaround. Because microlearning is focused on a single concept, it can be created using a simplistic process, easy for the company to share, and easy for employees to view.

				It can complement your existing programs. I’ve already mentioned microlearning being able to provide a refresher or reminder. It can do that as a follow-up to a traditional classroom learning experience. Instead of searching for a paper or electronic participant guide, an employee can search for the microlearning session. It can provide a solution in a moment of need.

				It could be a coaching tool. I define coaching as being able to help someone reach their goals. Part of doing that could be sharing with them resources that will improve their skills and knowledge. Managers could use microlearning as part of their employee coaching toolbox. When an employee is stuck and needs some assistance, a manager could recommend microlearning sessions.



			Microlearning has tremendous flexibility and can bring organizations a return on investment in many ways. That’s something that traditional classroom training might not be able to do. It doesn’t mean ditch classroom training—it means give microlearning a try. This could provide participants with an additional learning method they can connect with.

			Social Learning

			Social learning is another form of learning but a tricky concept to define because I think it’s interpreted two ways.

			The first is defining the social part as social media. Social learning is learning via social-media platforms, which totally makes sense. We learn from social media all the time. It might be a Twitter chat, or an Instagram story, or LinkedIn Live event. We might even learn from following hashtags that are interesting to us like #HRTech or #RemoteWork or #eLearning.

			However, in the book The New Social Learning by Tony Bingham and Marcia Conner, they define social in terms of people, as in we’re being social. So, social learning is “learning with and from others.” If we think about social learning in this context, then it includes the first definition because social media would be a forum to learn with others. It would also include casual learning events like a lunch and learn, peer-to-peer learning, or some forms of on-the-job learning.

			Honestly, I don’t know that either approach to defining social learning is wrong, but it does mean when talking about social and learning that we must ask a few probing questions to make sure everyone is on the same page.

			Massive Open Online Courses

			Massive open online courses (MOOCs) are online courses designed for large-scale participation. Most MOOCs are designed and delivered by universities such as Stanford, MIT, and Harvard. However, that’s not always the case. Aquent, a global staffing organization dedicated to creative professionals, launched Gymnasium, a MOOC designed to close skills gaps for marketing, creative, and digital professionals.

			Common course providers include edX, Coursera, and Udacity. Most programs are free, and sometimes for a nominal fee, participants can get a certificate of completion. Typically, participants can work at their own pace, on their own time.

			MOOCs have gone in and out of popularity over the past decade. As more organizations look to give employees flexibility with their learning and development, MOOCs could become an option.

			Gamification

			Gamification is a strategy that incorporates elements of game playing such as points, timers, badges, and leaderboards to encourage participation. The big advantage of gamification is that—when designed well—it can infuse a level of fun into the learning process. And who doesn’t like fun? Even the grumpiest employees will leave saying their time was well spent. The challenge is making sure that the facilitator or trainer debriefs the learning session properly by making the connection between the fun activity and the business learning.

			This leads to the downside of gamification. If a learning session is “all fun and no learning” then it misses the mark. Employees leave a learning event saying, “Oh that was so much fun!” Then the manager asks, “What did you learn?” and there’s no response. Also, depending on your corporate culture, games and fun activities might not be what you’re all about. I have worked with companies that have point-blank told me, “We’re not a fun company,” and you have to respect that—it’s not a part of the culture.

			Finally, for gamification to work, it must be designed well. If you’ve ever played an online game, then you know what I’m talking about. There are some that immediately capture your attention and keep it. There are others that are just disengaging.

			Just my personal opinion, but I think that’s one of the reasons that gamification is used sparingly in learning—because there are so many potential pitfalls. But it’s not a reason to shy away from it. A well-designed fun activity can create a powerful learning message and stay with participants significantly longer. For example, I teach a leadership development program where we play a game to reinforce the principles of the program. Participants will tell me years later that they still remember the game. Gamification can be done, and the rewards are huge.

			Learning Content Management System

			A learning content management system (LCMS) is a software used to create, store, and organize e-learning content. An instructional designer would use an LCMS to create and publish learning programs.

			Learning Management System

			A learning management system (LMS) is a software application that provides the framework for all aspects of the participant’s learning process. The difference between an LCMS and the LMS is the end user—the LCMS user is an instructional designer and the LMS user is the employee. Ideally, the designer would create training using an LCMS and push it out to employees on the company’s LMS. Organizations are also able to purchase training modules from a third party and have them delivered via the company’s LMS.

			An LMS allows employees to enroll in training, participate in a program, and record their learning progress. Today’s LMS software allows participants to engage with content using mobile devices. Programs can be delivered in multiple languages. Some LMS programs will use artificial intelligence to suggest future learning programs to the participant.

			The organization can track overall metrics in terms of number of program attendees, completion percentages, and course evaluations.





Common Practices in Learning and Development


			Learning and development is often about information: finding good information, sharing good information, and using good information to develop activities. In our busy lives, we don’t have unlimited time to find relevant information, so it’s important to develop our curation skills.

			Curation is a form of social learning that I like to define as the ability to sift through the vast amounts of information available to us and find exactly what we’re looking for at the right moment. And when I say sift through vast amounts of information, I’m referring to the internet. There’s so much available to us and it can be a challenge to find good sources.

			Content curation has always been popular in marketing, and it’s becoming very popular in terms of learning. If you think about it, we’ve always done curation, but maybe not thought of it as a learning practice. We just do it.

			We should view curation not only from the standpoint of where we can go to find good information (i.e., who are good curators for us) but also in terms of the information we need to gather ourselves. Possibly there’s something unique we can’t find anywhere so we’ll curate it ourselves or something that can be found in other places, but we want to put our own point of view on it. Think of it like being a museum art curator. Our skill is putting together works of art from multiple sources in various mediums to convey a story. Now translate that to the corporate world. As business curators, our role is to find data and information from global sources that will help us achieve our goals.

			Curation is different from aggregation. If a good museum curator uses art to tell us a story, a museum aggregator hangs a grouping of pictures and leaves us to figure it out on our own. Sometimes that’s a good thing when we want or need to figure it out on our own, but there are times when aggregation is nothing more than noise. This is why we need to understand curation. Otherwise, we won’t be able to realize the benefit.

			Years ago, I attended a session lead by Fujitsu Laboratories at an ATD TechKnowledge Conference on curation learning. They shared how content curation was being used for organizational learning and their three-step approach for learning curation:

			 				Search. Learners decide the topics they wish to explore, search relevant sources, and select content.

				Synthesize. Learners analyze the content and synthesize it by adding their point of view or context.

				Share. Learners share their curated materials and comment on others curated materials.



			The only way we will become skilled curators is to start breaking down curation skills into manageable pieces and find out what works best for ourselves, our networks, and our companies.





Measuring and Evaluating Our Learning and Development Efforts


			Return on Investment

			There are two common measurements for learning and development activities. First, we cannot talk about measuring learning and development without mentioning return on investment (ROI). You might also refer to it as a benefit-cost ratio.

			ROI = Benefits / Costs

			If the ROI is greater than one, then the benefits outweigh the costs and the program is considered a success.

			If the ROI is less than one, then before the organization deems the program a failure, they should ask themselves a few questions:

			 				Have we considered all the program benefits?

				Have we calculated the benefit amount correctly?

				Are all the costs associated with the program?

				Did we calculate the cost amount correctly?



			If the answer to all these questions is yes, then the organization might need to re-examine the program to see if there’s anything they can do to either increase benefits or reduce costs.

			Establishing ROI—especially with compliance programs—can be viewed as a challenge. We tend to view them as “all cost and no benefit,” but take a moment to walk through the questions. Often, a second review of program benefits will yield additional paybacks.

			Kirkpatrick’s Levels of Evaluation

			The second method for measuring and evaluating learning is Kirkpatrick’s Levels of Evaluation. Created by Donald Kirkpatrick, professor emeritus at the University of Wisconsin, the four levels of evaluation serve to provide a framework for evaluating training programs:

			Level One (Reaction)—the degree to which participants enjoyed the training. Sometimes called “smile sheets,” level one evaluations are traditionally the postevent surveys we receive that ask us our reaction to the program. They include questions about the content, trainer, delivery, and facility.

			Level Two (Learning)—the extent to which participants acquired the knowledge or skills conveyed in training. A typical level-two evaluation would give participants a quiz at the beginning of the program to understand their level of knowledge, then give them a quiz at the end of the program to see how much they’ve learned.

			Level Three (Behavior)—the degree to which participants apply what they learned in training. A level-three evaluation can be done qualitatively or quantitatively. For example, the company might conduct time-management training and give all participants a paper planner. They can walk around the office and see who is using it. Another scenario might be that instead of a paper planner, they give participants a code to download a smartphone app and they can check to see the percentage of people who redeemed the code and are using the app.

			Level Four (Results)—the outcomes that occur because of the training. Let’s say a manufacturing organization is concerned about the number of errors on the production line. They know how many errors they currently have. Then they conduct training and start to track how many errors they have. A level-four evaluation allows them to see the before and after of operational results.

			With the Kirkpatrick model, there is a relationship between the levels. As the level of difficulty to calculate the measurement increases, the value of the measurement increases. Some might infer that because a level-one measurement is the easiest to calculate, it is the least valuable (of the four.) However, we all know that level-one evaluations do provide value if constructed properly. On the other hand, a level-four evaluation is the most valuable, but it’s also very difficult to calculate and some organizations might not have the resources to do so.

			Some might disagree with me on this, but I think one of the important takeaways from the Kirkpatrick model is to make sure that learning programs are evaluated at the right level. Everything doesn’t have to always be measured at a level four. Everything does need to be measured.

			Organizations make huge investments into employee training. It’s important to provide some measurements regarding the success of the program. Even if your only measurement is a level one, you have a sense of how participants enjoyed the session.





Additional Learning and Development Resources


			It’s really tough to narrow down a handful of resources for this section, but I’m going to try, starting at an organizational level and working toward the individual.

			Senge, Peter M. The Fifth Discipline: The Art and Practice of the Learning Organization. New York: Doubleday, 2009.

			This book is a classic and should be on everyone’s bookshelf. It’s the framework for what we call a “learning organization” and dives into the five disciplines necessary to achieve that goal: personal mastery, mental models, shared vision, team learning, and systems thinking.

			Hartman, Phyllis G. A Manager’s Guide to Developing Competencies in HR Staff: Tips and Tools for Improving Proficiency in Your Reports. Alexandria, VA: Society for Human Resource Management, 2018.

			This book is filled with checklists, job aids, and worksheets to help readers develop the competencies listed in the SHRM BASK. While its focus is on the HR professional, if your organization is trying to develop employee competencies in communication, leadership, ethics, and so on, this book can offer some creative inspiration.

			Bozarth, Jane. Show Your Work: The Payoffs and How-To’s of Working Out Loud. San Francisco: Wiley, 2014.

			Where the Manager’s Guide shows us how to develop skills, this book is focused on sharing tacit knowledge, an area that is often missed during instructional design. Bozarth is the author of several books and her work is always a fun read full of practical ideas.

			Cohen, Debra J. Developing Proficiency in HR: 7 Self-Directed Activities for HR Professionals. Alexandria, VA: Society for Human Resource Management, 2016.

			This book is also focused on the competencies in the SHRM BASK, but it introduces a concept that would apply to anyone—a career portfolio. I could see organizations encouraging employees to develop and maintain career portfolios during orientation as part of their future development.

			Cohen, Deb. Developing Management Proficiency: A Self-Directed Learning Approach. New York: Routledge, 2020.

			This book is a follow-up to Developing Proficiency. Self-directed learning is absolutely essential for career success and this book can help employees—especially managers—improve their skills in this area. I could see organizations giving employees the Developing Proficiency and Developing Management books as a set to start their learning journey.





Learning Is about More Than Putting in the Time


			I once attended a training session where the instructor said that he knew participants were “getting it” because they started asking questions. It totally made sense to me. Whether the questions happen during the actual training or after the session, questions can be an informal gauge of training interest and engagement.

			Of course, asking questions cannot and should not be the only training metric or measurement. Learning is about business results.

			Organizations have to be careful that measuring training doesn’t lose focus and become an exercise in measuring hours. You’ve probably seen the approach of measuring training by hours at some point. Training must start at 8:30 a.m. and end at 4:30 p.m. If you’re done at 4:00 p.m., the facilitator needs to keep talking until 4:30 p.m. because training is measured by hours. Participants aren’t held accountable for the content, they’re held accountable for the number of hours they spent in training.

			I understand why this happens. I’ve attended (and facilitated) plenty of training programs where participants want to beat rush hour traffic home and they figure if we skip all the breaks and take fifteen minutes for lunch, then we can get out early. Learning events should be designed so participants can comfortably take breaks and not be worried about being stuck in traffic. It is possible to do both.

			When we comfortably deliver training, not compromise the content, and finish a few minutes early, do you know how that happens? Questions. When participants are engaged with the content and they are asking questions, the time just seems to go faster, you finish earlier, and participants understand the content.

			This is what you’re striving for all along—participants who retain the material.

			The reason organizations need to get learning and development right is because, at some point, they will use learning and development to promote or move employees into new jobs. Skills development is the focus of our next chapter.



* * *



			 				 					1	Note that consensus building doesn’t mean that everyone in the organization needs to love the answer. It simply means that everyone needs to be able to live with the answer. Huge difference!



				 					2	In Star Wars: A New Hope, Jedi Master Obi-Wan Kenobi displays how the Force can have influence over the weak minded. Jabba the Hutt refers to this skill as a Jedi mind trick.



				 					3	Trussing is a cooking technique by which you tie the chicken with kitchen twine, so the wings and legs stay close to the body. It allows the chicken to brown evenly.





OceanofPDF.com





Chapter 7


			Succession Planning, Upskilling, and Reskilling


			 				Why Are Succession Planning, Upskilling, and Reskilling Important?

				Career Planning

				Ten Succession Planning, Upskilling, and Reskilling Terms You Should Know

				Philosophies, Models, and Theories That Support Succession Planning, Upskilling, and Reskilling

				Legal Considerations in Succession Planning, Upskilling, and Reskilling

				Technology and Succession Planning, Upskilling, and Reskilling

				Common Practices in Succession Planning, Upskilling, and Reskilling

				Measuring and Evaluating the Effectiveness of Your Succession Planning, Upskilling, and Reskilling Programs

				Additional Resources on Succession Planning, Upskilling, and Reskilling

				Skills Development Works When It’s a Part of Company Culture





Why Are Succession Planning, Upskilling, and Reskilling Important?


			Organizations grow and change. They regularly set new goals and strive to accomplish those goals. As the organization creates new goals, employees have to be ready to do the work. Succession planning, upskilling, and reskilling allow employees to grow and change with the company.

			In addition, organizations might face a labor or skills shortage because the world around them is changing. Think of how the automated teller machine (a.k.a. ATM) has changed banking or how e-commerce has changed retail. It’s possible that new technologies and ways of doing business will force organizational change. Companies will need to react by giving employees the skills they need.

			On some level, this chapter is a continuation of Chapter 6 (Learning and Development), but it’s also a standalone representation of what talent management is all about. We’re talking about employees learning new skills for the future. In this chapter, we’ll discuss some very specific plans and actions that organizations should consider when preparing themselves for the future workplace.





Career Planning


			Let’s start by talking about the concept of career planning. Career planning is the process of matching career goals with capabilities. Simply put, it’s about connecting what people do well with what they want to do. Ideally, we want employees to enjoy their chosen career. If they do, then it can translate to engagement, which ultimately has a positive impact on the business.

			But career planning isn’t a one-person activity. While individuals have an important role in their own career planning (more on that later), organizations have a responsibility as well. The key word here is responsibility. Helping employees find a successful career path is in the best interest of the organization. So this isn’t an optional activity.

			One way to view career planning is in terms of employee career stages, such as early, mid-, and late career. It is important to note that this could also offer the organization some flexibility. And when we’re talking about career stages, we’re not necessarily talking about length of time in the workforce, meaning early career could be viewed as either new to the job, new to the company, or both. The same philosophy applies to mid- and late career. This gives organizations several options when it comes to their support for career-planning efforts.

			Three Ways That Organizations Can Support Career Planning

			Here are three different ways organizations can use existing programs to support an employee:

			 				Tools. Whether a person is new to the organization or their role, organizations need to provide them with tools. Early-stage career development starts with orientation and onboarding. These programs are specifically designed to give new employees the tools they need to be successful. Whether it’s helping a new manager learn how to create a budget or teaching an employee tips for a successful one-on-one meeting, organizations can make an impact in an employee’s career by giving them the right tools.

				Guidance. After employees are given the tools, managers can play a role in career planning by offering guidance. Find out what employees like about their work (and what they don’t). Encourage them to take on new assignments to learn. Get employees to do their own self-awareness activities so they can start identifying the things they enjoy and those they have an interest in learning more about. This is also a good activity for managers to start introducing employees to the concepts of self-learning.

				Coaching. Once employees have the tools and start experimenting with them, managers can take on the role of coach to support career development. A way to do that is by sharing with employees the things they do well. Sometimes an employee needs to hear that they have a skill or aptitude for something. If an employee has an interest in something they haven’t exactly perfected, the manager can also provide some feedback on things the employee should consider spending additional time learning.



			In many organizations, managers might already be doing these things. The question is, do they realize the impact they have on employee careers? They should! It’s a significant role and one that should be taken seriously. In fact, managers might want to start asking employees during one-on-one meetings or during stay interviews, “What can I do to help your career?”

			Companies shouldn’t be asked to assume all the responsibility for career planning either. The other half of career planning belongs to the employee. Employees are an equal partner in their own career planning. Remember, the definition of career planning is “the process of matching career goals with capabilities.” That can’t happen without employee involvement.

			Three Skills Employees Need to Become Better Career Planners

			If we continue our conversation about career planning in terms of employee career stages (i.e., early, mid, and late), this could provide employees with a roadmap of the skills they should consider developing. Keep in mind my earlier comment about career stages being independent of time in the workforce.

			Here are three different skills that employees can use to drive their own career plan and complement what the organization is doing. HR leaders and department managers can talk about these topics in their career conversations with employees:

			 				Self-awareness. The first step to successful career planning is knowing where the employee wants to go with their career. This must come from the employee. It might be tempting to “talk an employee into” or “strongly encourage” them to take a role, but it could lead to employee disengagement and turnover. The solution is for employees to gain an understanding of what they enjoy doing and start developing opinions about their future. Then, they can share with their manager (or a prospective employer) their career aspirations.

				Problem-solving. Speaking of solutions, occasionally, we get stuck in our careers. Maybe we’re not moving up as fast as we would like or we’re trying to figure out whether to get a certification or a degree. And we don’t always want to discuss it with a manager or HR. Employees need to know a problem-solving model that will allow them to work through issues on their own. On a side note, having an employee know how to use a proven problem-solving model isn’t a bad thing for the organization either.

				Decision-making. This aligns with the self-awareness and problem-solving. At some point, employees need to make the final decision where their careers are concerned. And they need to make that decision in a way they’re comfortable with. Employees need to know how and when they like to make decisions. Ideally, they should share that information with the company so when they’re presented with an opportunity, the employee’s reaction is somewhat expected.



			If organizations aren’t already doing it, they might want to consider adding some career-planning-related questions to their interview process, whether for internal or external hires. Some sample interview questions may include the following:

			 				Tell me about a time when you had to make a big decision. What was it and how did you go about making it?

				Describe the process you use when you have to solve a problem. How did the process help the final solution?

				Share a situation where you learned something about yourself. What was the situation and what did you learn?



			The reason that organizations want to invest in career management and want to give employees the career-development tools to be a good career-planning “partner” is because they both want high performance.

			High-Potential and High-Performing Employees

			Organizations want to have high-potential (HiPo) and high-performing (HiPer) employees. If employees are provided with the proper development opportunities, the organization can have key contributors in both the short and long term. This is great for company performance and their succession plan.

			Employees want to be identified as HiPos and HiPers as well. Organ­izations typically give HiPos and HiPers exclusive professional development opportunities or additional incentives and rewards, and they sometimes take extra effort to retain them. It helps with employee morale, loyalty, and performance.

			However, there’s sometimes an assumption that when we’re talking about HiPer and HiPo employees that they will all become managers, and that might not happen for a variety of reasons:

			 				There aren’t enough management opportunities within the organization.

				The employee doesn’t want to be a manager.

				The employee isn’t best suited for management.



			The first two reasons are self-explanatory and regularly cited even when we’re not talking about HiPos and HiPers, but let’s look at the third reason. Just because an employee has been identified as HiPo or HiPer doesn’t mean their future is in management. Organizations can do themselves a real injustice by assuming HiPo and HiPer only means a future in management. Another option for HiPo or HiPer employees is becoming a subject matter expert (SME).

			A SME is an individual with deep knowledge and skills in a particular process, function, or technology. Hence, they’re often referred to as the “expert” in that area. Not to take anything away from managers, but SMEs can be equally (if not more) valuable to the business. The key is to utilize the person as an SME.

			Create Transparent and Authentic Subject Matter Expert Roles with Dual Career Paths

			How organizations often go astray when it comes to developing SMEs is that they don’t take full advantage of dual career paths, sometimes called dual career ladders. A dual career path is often used with highly technical positions where one path follows management and the other follows technical expertise. Here’s an example of two different career paths for an engineer:



			Figure 7.1 Engineer Career Paths

			The idea behind dual career paths is that someone who loves the technical side of things can still grow and progress with the organization. And the individual who wants to move into management can do what they want as well.

			To have dual career paths, organizations need to make the technical (a.k.a. SME) path desirable. It cannot be viewed as a “you weren’t good enough for management opportunity, so here’s this other path for you.” Companies already do a pretty good job of promoting the benefits of management. Organizational SMEs should be showcased in recruitment marketing. Dual career paths should be talked about during onboarding and in performance reviews.

			In addition, SMEs should receive internally equitable compensation and benefits, receive fair rewards and recognition for their work, and have available appropriate professional development opportunities. The last thing any organization wants is for their resident expert to not be an expert anymore.

			Four Qualities of Effective Organizational Subject Matter Experts

			It wouldn’t be fair to anyone to apply the same principles of management development to SME development. Sure, there will be skills that are expected of both managers and SMEs like problem-solving, critical thinking, and effective communication. But there are also a few that we should specifically look for when identifying SMEs:

			 				Technical ability. Obviously, there’s an expectation that the company’s SMEs have a high level of technical skill. It’s possible that department managers will rely on their SMEs to provide detailed answers about how things work.

				Project management. SMEs can be some of the first people assigned to project teams to fix issues or oversee updates, primarily because they have the technical expertise mentioned previously. Understanding the core principles of project management would be an asset.

				Beginner’s mindset. Because of their knowledge, SMEs could be given the role of trainer. This means they will need to demonstrate a huge amount of empathy for beginners. Having a beginner’s mindset will serve them well.

				Radical candor. This is the name of a book and the concept of directly challenging another person with respect. SMEs will be asked their opinion. Being able to respectfully disagree or present an alternative point of view is key.



			Organizations need to think about the expectations they have for SMEs. Will they work on projects? Will they train other employees? Whatever those expectations are, they should be identified, documented, and shared with individuals being considered for the role.

			Subject Matter Expert Career-Development Conversations

			Once the competencies for an SME have been established, organizations will want to start talking with individuals about the opportunity. This has to be a nuanced conversation for three reasons:

			 				No one really wants to hear that they’re not management material, even if they’re relieved that they’re not being considered for a management role. Being an SME should be presented as a great opportunity. It should be described in terms of the value it brings to the organization and the department.

				Organizations will have to decide if they like the term “subject matter expert.” Some organizations might be reluctant to use the word expert. That’s okay. In fact, some employees might be uncomfortable with being labeled that as well. Another option could be the word specialist.

				It’s possible that an SME could be moved into a manager role or vice versa. An SME could develop the skills and desire to move into management. And we don’t like to think about demotions, but it is within the realm of possibilities. A manager could move to an SME role because it suits them better.



			It’s also possible that an SME in one area might be asked to become an SME in another. For example, a payroll specialist might become a payroll and accounts-receivable specialist.

			While the start of the conversation with a potential SME might be different, there are many other aspects that will be the same. Organizations will want SMEs to have regular one-on-one feedback sessions. SMEs will continue to need professional development and training that aligns with their role. The important part is to realize that being an SME doesn’t have to be a lesser role. It could be a much-desired position.

			Becoming a SME isn’t the end of someone’s career. Individuals will move in (and out) of this specialist role throughout their careers. That’s good for the employee and good for the company, but it does mean that both individuals and organizations must think about career planning and skill development.

			As the business world continues to grow and change, organizations will need their SMEs to stay current and relevant. This means giving the role a place in the company’s replacement and succession plan.

			Four Activities to Develop Subject Matter Experts

			Organizations have development plans to help an employee move into management. Organizations need to do the same for SMEs. Going from HiPo or HiPer to SME doesn’t happen overnight. A good place to start is examining activities where employees can learn and teach at the same time:

			 				Special Projects. By definition, special projects allow groups to operate autonomously to deliver a specific result. They are often great opportunities for employees to demonstrate agility and collaboration. Temporary assignments provide employees the opportunity to (1) do something they’re very qualified to do, (2) work with new groups of people, and (3) contribute to an immediate need in the organization. A future SME is developing their skills while, at the same time, showing others their capabilities.

				Learning and Development. Employees have several opportunities to share their knowledge and skills during onboarding and technical training. The one thing that’s important when it comes to SMEs delivering training is giving them the tools to do it well. The company should have SMEs attend a train-the-trainer program, so they learn how to effectively convey information and practice in a safe environment.

				Knowledge Management. We’re going to talk more about knowledge management in Chapter 9 (Transitions), but this is one of the most underutilized programs in organizations today. Knowledge management is the systemic process of gathering, using, and sharing institutional information. SMEs can be used to create the process, monitor information sharing, and ensure the information remains current. SMEs have a deep knowledge of their respective area, so they would be the first to share their own information for the program.

				Employee Coaching. This isn’t about coaching HiPo or HiPer employees, although that could be very valuable. Future SMEs can be trained to become coaches for other employees on technical matters (a.k.a. the subject of their expertise). Think of this as more of a one-on-one training environment rather than managers coaching employees. And because the SME isn’t a manager and can’t issue discipline, it could be a less stressful coaching experience for employees.



			Organizations Need Subject Matter Experts in Their Succession Plan

			While employees often are promoted into management, that doesn’t have to be the only way employees bring value. Companies can create and encourage dual career ladders where employees have a choice: management or SME. Both are incredibly valuable to the company and rewarding to the employee.

			But this does raise the question: how can organizations identify who would be a good SME? Companies regularly have conversations about who their next managers are. And, once an employee has been identified as having SME potential, how does the company talk with them about their career potential? Organizations frequently have conversations with employees as part of replacement and succession planning.





Ten Succession Planning, Upskilling, and Reskilling Terms You Should Know


			In the previous section, I mentioned a few terms that might need additional clarification, like replacement planning. What I wanted to do with the definitions in this chapter was not only define the term but expand on the topic with some tips or common practices.

			Replacement Planning

			If there’s one activity that has more of an impact than succession planning and talent pools, it’s replacement planning. Although the term is frequently used in conversations about succession planning, they are two different things. A replacement plan identifies “backups” for positions. Traditionally, it focuses on top-level positions, but it can be done for any key position in the organization.

			Having individuals identified as backups just makes good business sense for a variety of reasons. As much as we don’t like to mention it, employees can become unexpectedly seriously ill or have an accident and be unable to work. The organization needs to find someone to take over their responsibilities—even temporarily.

			If your organization has a formal succession plan, you might already have replacements identified. Or it could be an added step in the existing process. For organizations using talent pools for employee development, here are seven steps that can guide a replacement planning activity:

			Step 1. Identify key positions. While every job is important, certain roles within the organization would significantly impact the business if left open for a long period. Those key positions are a place to start. You should have much of this information from your workforce plan.

			Step 2. Identify the critical skills for each position. You might be sensing a theme here—you got this information from your staffing analysis. List the qualities that anyone holding this position must have. This is not a wish list; remember, this is a replacement plan. If someone had the basic skills, then they could learn the other skills or knowledge required for the position.

			Step 3. Assess the skills of current employees. Again, your staffing analysis should contain this information. If not, you can obtain it in the form of training records, performance reviews, coaching feedback, and nine-box grids. It might also be helpful to look at the skills of freelancers and consultants who currently partner with the organization or at former employees who might be interested in returning.

			Step 4. Match the critical skills to the current skills of employees. This step is when organizations might be tempted to think that backup employees are currently in the department—for instance, the accounting manager is the obvious backup for the accounting director. However, a recent transfer might be interested in returning to his or her former department. Keep the planning activity focused on skills, not current job titles.

			Step 5. Pay attention to jobs that don’t have matches. This exercise will possibly surface some jobs that need immediate attention—meaning there is no replacement available. It’s better to find out this information during a planning activity than when you’re trying to fill an opening. The reason that HR needs to be a part of the conversation is so there are no surprises.

			Step 6. Develop a plan to address gaps. This plan might include development programs, mentoring, coaching, contingent staffing, or a combination of all these programs. With replacement planning, the organization doesn’t have to identify a single replacement. Use talent pools to develop transferable skills for many positions.

			Step 7. Evaluate the plan. On a regular basis, evaluate the plan to make sure the company’s needs can still be met. For key positions, the individuals currently holding those roles can be tasked with helping identify their replacement and train them. This goal could become part of their performance review.

			While organizations are working hard to hire, engage, and retain the best talent, it would be naïve to think employees never leave. Replacement plans provide the organization with the comfort that a last-minute resignation, retirement, or employee illness will not leave the company disadvantaged.

			Replacement plans do one other thing. They give the organization a sense of the investment they will need to make should a backup be necessary. Whether it’s temporary or long term, employees asked to assume greater responsibilities need support. Regular replacement-planning activities make the organization keenly aware of the support the affected employees will need to be successful.

			Coaching

			Managers are responsible for coaching employees to achieve the best performance possible. And the key to performance is feedback. When done well, feedback reinforces positive behaviors and corrects not-so-positive ones.

			The one-on-one meeting (also abbreviated as 1:1) provides managers with the opportunity to provide real-time feedback to employees. The timelier the feedback, the better the prospect of changing or reinforcing the behavior. One-on-one meetings can happen on a regular basis, allowing the conversation to become more casual and conversational. They can build stronger working relationships and trust between managers and employees.

			While one-on-one meetings can benefit from a casual vibe, this doesn’t mean that one-on-one meetings should be inconsistent. This is one of those activities where surprises should be kept to a minimum. Keeping a certain level of consistency helps employees prepare for the meeting and that translates into better conversations. It also helps the manager develop excellent one-on-one meeting skills.

			One-on-One Meeting Format

			This meeting format can be accomplished in less than one hour when properly planned. The goal isn’t to focus on performance that cannot be changed. It’s to talk about future projects, take a pulse on goals, engage the employee, and find out how the manager can help make the employee’s work experience meaningful.

			One-on-one meetings don’t have to be boring or repetitive; however, they can have some common elements. Here are four general topics that should be covered in some way during a one-on-one meeting:

			 				Brief review since last meeting. This should not be a huge portion of the meeting. For the most part, both the manager and the employee probably know what has transpired since the last meeting. But for managers with a virtual team, this could be a particularly valuable start. And for managers trying to develop self-awareness skills in their employees, it could be a great exercise for them.

				Discuss new items. The manager should share with the employee any new projects that impact the employee’s work, maybe even some projects in which the employee doesn’t have direct involvement but could at some future date. One of the drivers in employee engagement is making a connection between work and the company goals.

				This is the opportunity. Speaking of goals, this is also the perfect moment to conduct a quick review of an employee’s goals. Make sure employees are on track to accomplish their goals. Find out if employees have anything going on that would impact their action plans such as a vacation or leave of absence. Discuss if employees need professional training or development to complete their goals. If goals need to be modified or outright cancelled, the manager can discuss that with the employee. They can also use the time to set new goals.

				Build a relationship with the employee. There’s an old saying that employees don’t leave companies, they leave managers. On some level, it’s true. Managers play a huge role in employee retention. The one-on-one meeting is an opportunity to engage the employee and develop a positive working relationship.



			During the one-on-one meeting, managers can ask a “stay interview” question. Stay interviews are designed to find out from employees what they like about their job and why they choose to stay with the company. A couple of sample questions are the following:

			 				Is the job turning out to be what you expected?

				What’s one thing your last organization did that we don’t do?



			No matter how long the employee has been with the company, it’s good to find out why employees stay. The organization gains valuable information for their retention strategy. It’s also valuable for managers to understand how they can support the employee. At this point, the manager and employee have talked about past performance and future goals. Managers should specifically conduct their own “minievaluation” and ask how they can help the employee.

			A word of caution about asking this question: Don’t put the employee on the spot. Let them know that this will be a regular part of the conversation so they can come prepared to give the manager good feedback.

			 				Establish items for the next meeting. Before wrapping up the meeting, discuss any items that will carry over to the next meeting. It would be best to find a way to document this. Many performance management technology solutions give the manager and employee a way to document their meeting so it can be referred to between meetings. Conclude the meeting by thanking the employee for their work and support.



			Planning for One-on-One Meeting Success

			This will sound incredibly obvious, but one-on-one meetings involve two people, which means that organizations need to spend equal time coaching both meeting participants. That’s why organizations need to provide employees with some training and guidance on their role during one-on-one meetings. Having a meeting where a manager just tells an employee stuff isn’t productive. Employees need to come to the conversation prepared for discussion. Here are a few things that the organization could encourage employees to do so the one-on-one meeting is a success.

			First, employees are sometimes at a disadvantage when it comes to scheduling because a manager will typically schedule the meeting. But there are a couple of things that employees can do to make sure the one-on-one doesn’t move down on the priority list:

			 				Employees could work with the manager to establish an exact cadence for the one-on-one meeting (e.g., every second Tuesday at 2 p.m.).

				If your manager is reluctant to do that, the employee could bring their calendar to each meeting. At the end of a meeting, they can suggest scheduling the next meeting.

				If that doesn’t work, the employee could wait a couple of weeks and ask for the meeting. They could pop into their manager’s office and say, “Hey isn’t it time for our one-on-one? I wanted to make sure I didn’t forget to put it on my calendar.”



			Once the meeting is scheduled, employees need to dedicate time to preparing for the meeting. At minimum, employees should spend some time thinking about their performance. Preparation also means thinking about some questions to ask during the meeting. These questions typically involve what’s happening inside the organization or goals. If the manager doesn’t bring up company projects, it’s okay to ask about them: “Are there any new projects I should know about?”

			Employees might also want to provide their manager with an update on their goals. Which goals are on track? Which goals might need revisiting? If a goal is off track, come prepared to discuss why, what it will take to get it on track, and whether the goal needs to be canceled.

			So far, the focus of the one-on-one meeting has been on the employee’s performance, goals, and the like. The focus of the meeting will continue to be on the employee, but the conversation is going to shift. Employees should be prepared to offer valuable feedback to the company. For example, they should be able to tell their manager what support they need from them to accomplish their goals. Make suggestions on actions the company can take to improve.

			Just as employees want to hear feedback about their performance, managers do, too. Employees should consider using some of their meeting time to tell their manager what they do well. In addition, employees might want to think about telling their manager those things that the company does well. All feedback isn’t negative, and sharing positive feedback with a manager tells them which behaviors to continue.

			Before ending the meeting, both the manager and employee should recap what they plan to do until the next meeting. Discuss where any notes from the meeting will be located so both individuals have access to the information. A technology solution is the perfect place for this!

			Mentoring

			Mentors are typically SMEs in the topic they are mentoring. Their method involves teaching and development. They are passing along their knowledge and skills. They’re different from a coach, who is traditionally focused on listening, questioning, and processing. Their methods focus on action plans, goals, and accountability. They are helping someone achieve a goal that’s been set.

			This doesn’t imply that a mentor or a coach is superior to the other. In fact, it only heightens the importance of choosing the right one. Coaching might be best in situations where there’s a skills or knowledge gap with no clear path to address it. Mentoring may be a good option when someone is confident about what they want to do but they need direction. It could be helpful to have more than one mentor, depending upon what a person is trying to accomplish.

			Many organizations develop mentoring programs as a way to ensure organizational knowledge and history is passed along to new employees, who will lead the organization forward. Creating a mentoring program isn’t a short-term process. As much as we might like the term Vulcan mind meld, that’s not an effective way to pass along knowledge. Not yet at least. So, for now, organizations should pass along knowledge over time, give people the opportunity to process it, use it in the daily operation, and ask questions about it.

			If you’re looking for some practical tips to develop a mentoring program, one of my go-to resources is the Association for Talent Development’s (ATD) TD@Work series. These are short—less than twenty-page—resources that provide an overview of the topic plus job aids. They have one titled “Tools for Effective Mentoring Programs” that includes a program outline, matching process suggestions, mentor position descriptions, and skills questionnaires. ATD also offers a book, Creating a Mentoring Program, that includes information on how to conduct activities such as the launch meeting, celebrations, check-ins, and closures.

			One last thing to consider in developing your organizational mentoring program is metrics. This ties directly to the program goals. Since most mentoring programs have three goals, (1) to assist in career development, (2) to increase staff retention, and (3) to improve employee engagement, then the metrics should correspond to those goals. Examples of metrics that can be developed include:

			 				Measures of program quality may be percentage of mentors and mentees that have met at least once per month and percentage of completion in the program.

				Measures of participant experiences include perceptions of value, match appropriateness, and levels of trust. This applies to both the mentee and the mentor.

				Measures of organizational impact are those metrics that help the organization achieve their goals. This includes work performance, retention, recognition, etc.



			Part of program design should include what metrics will be used to evaluate program effectiveness, what data will be gathered to create the metric, how often the data will be gathered, and what data points will be considered acceptable or unacceptable in evaluating the effectiveness of the program.

			The beauty of mentoring and mentoring programs is being able to tap into the organizations current talent to develop future talent. Luckily, there are many resources available to help develop programs that can have tremendous workplace value.

			Multirater or 360 Assessment

			This is a process in which an employee receives anonymous feedback from the people who work around them. It typically includes their manager, peers, and direct reports. Sometimes it will also include customers. A 360 assessment can be a very useful development tool.

			The type of feedback differs from a performance appraisal and it’s important that reviewers understand the difference between them. Performance appraisals are generally conducted between the employee and their manager and typically focuses on the employee’s achievements and end results. And, more often than not, the appraisal has a direct impact on compensation (getting a raise or a promotion).

			On the other end, the goal behind a 360 feedback review is to get a better sense of an employee’s skill set by evaluating things such as their communication, leadership, and teamwork abilities. The feedback provided will serve to create a self-development plan that will help the employee grow professionally and personally.

			To get quality results, it’s important to properly train reviewers before launching a multirater program, according to Gabriel Dominguez Martin, CEO and cofounder of Primalogik, a provider of performance management technology solutions including 360 feedback reviews and employee opinion surveys:

			Your employees need to understand the purpose of these reviews, the company’s process, and how the results will be analyzed. They also need to receive guidelines on how to properly provide and receive feedback. Train your employees to wear the coaching hat and recognize that the end goal is to help the other person improve. So, what type of feedback will help this person grow? Provide useful tips to help them do a better job in that area.

			Because 360 assessments and performance appraisals are very different, one of the things that organizations can do is use them together as a career planning and development tool. There’s a difference between what gets done and how it gets done. A performance review talks about what the employee accomplished. A 360 assessment shares how the employee accomplishes their goals.

			Upskilling

			This is the process of acquiring new skills. It’s typically related to the job that the employee currently holds—for example, a programmer learning a new computer software program. It could be used in the context of retraining, which often takes place after a merger, acquisition, or restructuring. An example might be retraining the accounting team on a new procedure for processing expense reports. They already know how to process reports, but they need retraining on the new way.

			Reskilling

			This also involves learning new skills, but it’s usually for the purpose of transitioning to a new role. It could be for a promotional or lateral opportunity such as an administrative assistant learning how to code or an accounts payable clerk learning payroll. Sometimes it’s presented in the context of development, which takes place when an individual gains new knowledge and skills for the purpose of transitioning into a role of greater responsibility (i.e., management development). Often, when we think of development, it could involve multiple roles over the long term.

			Relocation

			One of the ways that employees can gain skills and advance their careers is through special projects or assignments. That could involve relocation to a new city, state, or country. As someone who has relocated for their career, these moments are both exciting and nerve-racking. Organizations have a real opportunity to help employees make a smooth transition.

			SHRM has a great list of relocation-related resources for organizations including

			 				Toolkits for managing employee relocations;

				A sample relocation policy and procedures, including for temporary assignments;

				A sample moving and relocation expense policy and agreement; and

				A guide to relocation services organizations, including a way to check and compare providers.



			An aspect of relocation that can cause employees some distraction is making sure their family is taken care of. I know we don’t always think about the employee’s family when it comes to careers but if we want the employee to focus on their work, it could be helpful to make sure their family is fine.

			A few years ago, I did an interview on HR Bartender about relocation and families. I spoke with Suzanne Lucas, who is an HR professional well known for demystifying HR on her blog Evil HR Lady, and Keith Lauby, who is a marketing professional known to most HR Bartender readers as “Mr. Bartender.” Both have firsthand experience relocating for an employee’s new opportunity.

			Sharlyn Lauby: When employees are asked to relocate, the organization is really asking a family to relocate. What can organizations do to recognize the employee’s family in relocation decisions?

			Suzanne Lucas: For a long-term relocation—especially one to a foreign country—the company needs to focus on the whole family, not just the employee. If a relocation fails, it’s most likely going to be due to the spouse and kids not being able to adjust to a new environment. The employee has a job to focus on and is usually just fine. The spouse and kids just gave up everything and everybody they know—and if the move is foreign, they even gave up their culture and maybe their language.

			Companies can provide job-finding help for the spouse, school tuition (especially in a foreign, non-English-speaking country), language lessons, spousal associations (common in companies that have lots of expats), and even someone to come and help the family learn about the culture and how to operate within it.

			Lauby: How helpful are relocation packages (versus lump sum payouts) when it comes to the actual move?

			Keith Lauby (Mr. Bartender): In making the decision to relocate, a package is great—it can give the sense that everything is taken care of. And relocation packages can help reinforce the feeling of moving the entire family. Sure, they help financially, and they can aid with focusing on the move since many of the decisions, such as specific movers and realtors, come along with the benefit. As a result, there are fewer decisions to make. That’s great and it helps, but it can only go so far. In the end, you’re still being uprooted.

			Lauby: Is job-search assistance for trailing spouses a good use of resources—knowing that it could take resources from other relocation benefits? Why or why not?

			Lucas: Great use of funds. It’s not that expensive and getting the spouse into a good job is key to a relocation sticking. A spouse that is used to working and can’t find a job can drag down your employee and make the relocation fail. You’ve spent a fortune getting the person here, throw in another few thousand dollars to help the spouse find a job.

			Lauby: For families facing the same decisions about moving and trailing spouses, what are one to two things they should consider?

			Lucas: Is this something that will be good for the whole family, not just the employee’s career? Are we prepared to enter a new culture (especially for foreign relocations)? If the new place is awful, can we suffer through for two years (or whatever the repayment clause is on the relocation)? Can we stand being away from family?

			Mr. Bartender: Communication is critical at this time—no doubt. The trailing spouse will feel detached and secondary to the needs of the relocated spouse who is busy in their new role. Both need to be empathetic for the new demands on their partner. For the trailing spouse, it’s easy to get buried under the details of relocation. Try to find time to enjoy the adventure and discovery of new opportunities.

			It’s not easy giving up one’s own career goals for someone else. As organizations focus more on employee well-being, it’s essential for them to think of the employee’s family. Because often what’s good for the family is good for the employee—and vice versa.

			Global Assignments and Expatriates

			Lucas mentioned global assignments in the last definition. When staffing globally, it is necessary to understand the differences among a local national, an expatriate, a third-country national, and an inpatriate.

			Expatriates. US companies have historically defined expatriates as employees who are asked to work outside their home countries for a period of time with the intent of eventually returning to their home countries. Expatriates who are from the country where the company is headquartered are referred to as headquarters expatriates. An expatriate may also be referred to as a parent-country national.

			Local nationals. Also known as host-country nationals, these employees are hired for jobs in their own country. For example, a United Kingdom citizen who is employed at Acme Company’s UK subsidiary is a local national.

			Third-country nationals (TCNs). These employees are not from the home country or the host country. TCNs have traditionally been technical or professional employees hired for short-term employment and are often considered as international freelance employees.

			Inpatriates. These foreign national employees have been transferred to work in the home country of an international organization on a temporary or permanent basis.

			SHRM has a toolkit for managing international assignments and sample policies for expatriates. While I’ve held positions with global responsibilities, I’ve never lived outside of the United States. There are two main considerations when thinking about international roles and responsibilities: (1) the labor laws and the like of the place that the employee is going to and (2) the customs, traditions, and so on of the place that the employee is going to. Both are equally important. It might be tempting to generalize and say that there’s very little difference between certain places, like Canada and the United States, but that’s not true. There are many differences. I’m reminded of a time several years ago when I moved from Orlando, Florida to Cincinnati, Ohio. There were definite differences (and I stayed in the same country!). Not that there’s anything wrong with either location, but let’s face it, they are different.

			I had the chance several years ago to speak with Ron Thomas about his transition to Saudi Arabia. Thomas is managing director of Strategy Focused Group, an organizational consulting group with offices in Dubai and Singapore. His professional experience includes vice president of human resources for Martha Stewart Living and Chief Executive officer at the Great Place to Work Institute. I recently had the chance to reconnect with Ron and asked him to share with us what he did to prepare for his transition and how it’s helped him both personally and professionally over the years:

			 				Culture. To get an understanding of culture and local issues, I started reading the English-language Arab News and expat blogs. They give you an open-eye view of living within the region. However, no research will give you the real sense of what it is to live there. No movie theaters, no alcohol, severe restrictions on women, and so on.Coming from the US, there is severe culture shock. If you are an expat, you will be living in a compound of like-minded people. This is the important network since you can live within this subdivision free of outside laws.

That being said, the Arab world is becoming more Westernized. Just recently, the typical work week was adjusted from Sunday to Thursday to Monday to Friday, the same as the rest of the world. There’s been a backlash as Friday is the Holy Day. So, as I mentioned, try as much as possible to understand the culture of the country you’re going to.



				Business traditions. We have a saying that the logic you have learned in business does not equate here. For example, when someone promises to deliver by a certain date, do not take that as fact. You will receive, but sometimes there does not seem to be a sense of urgency.Saudis do not suffer work-life balance, because they come to work at their start time and leave at end of day. They are not tethered to their cell phone for work-related issues. The vacation norm here is thirty days, unlike in the US where we tend to take one week here and there.



				Labor laws. Saudi labor law is an approximately forty-page Word document. The various laws are written skewed towards the employee. It is a must-read. The newspapers cover labor-law violations extensively so that is why it is paramount to read as often as you can.The other issue here is nationalism. There’s a tremendous amount of nationalism in the Middle East. Saudization is the national policy of Saudi Arabia to encourage employment of Saudi nationals in the private sector. In 2006, the workforce was largely dominated by expatriate workers. Today, certain positions are off limits to expats, especially in the field of human resources. HR positions are often held by their country person.

The Saudi government has enacted policies to promote Saudization, including warnings that companies which fail to comply with Saudization regulations will not be awarded government contracts. This type of law is prevalent throughout the Middle East since all countries depend on expat population and this program is designed to become less reliant on the outside worker.





			Even if you’re not planning to move to Saudi Arabia, I think Thomas’s experience can give someone a real sense of what it’s like to work in another country and the actions you must take to be effective working as an expat—both from an employee and employer perspective. It’s also a good reminder that cultures can change over time. We need to remain aware of our biases and be open to continuously learning about other cultures.

			Repatriation

			Repatriation is the process of an employee returning to their home country. In the SHRM article, “Welcome Back: You Sent Your Employees Overseas—Will You Be There to Welcome Them Back When They Return?” author Andrea Poe says that while organizations recognize the value of international assignments, very few can retain those employees when they return home. The reason? Companies do a poor job of repatriation.

			Repatriation should be viewed as more than making travel arrangements and moving household goods. According to the International Assignee Research Project, a recent joint study by Berlitz International and the Institute for International Human Resources (IIHR), 77 percent of international transferees received no career counseling from their employers upon their return from abroad and only 6 percent were offered re-entry training.Some tips for effective repatriation include starting early, preferably before employees ever leave for their overseas assignments. HR can set the stage for the repatriation process by ensuring that employees understand the value of their upcoming overseas assignments and that they have the company’s full support.

			When an employee returns, make sure they feel that their new skills and experience are being used. For example, if an employee transferred to Dubai, when that employee returns, the organization might want to assign them an Emirati client so they can use what they’ve learned. The organization can also solicit their input on global issues by assigning them to a special task force or project committee.

			Companies that fail to take advantage of the expertise of expats risk losing them.

			Apprenticeships and Internships

			Both apprenticeships and internships are programs that can help individuals with career planning and development. An apprenticeship is a work-based training program. Organizations that offer apprenticeship programs are able to recruit and develop high-quality employees and sometimes receive a tax credit for doing so.

			The website Apprenticeship.gov outlines five activities that help to create an apprenticeship program: paid work, on-the-job learning, classroom learning, mentoring, and credentialing. Industries that traditionally offer apprenticeship programs are construction, culinary arts, manufacturing, and health care. The SHRM Foundation has created an apprenticeship program to help employers develop HR specialists at their organizations.

			An internship is a work-based experience program. It’s an opportunity for students to see how the theories and models they’ve learned in school apply in a real-life work setting. And the organization can see what a potential employee can do. Examples of intern jobs include marketing, accounting, analysis, animal care, and so on. Here are a few things to consider when creating an internship program:

			 				Determine the company view on internships. Top-down support is essential for success of any program.

				Create meaningful work. An internship program does not substitute for a filing and copying clerk. It’s also not corporate servitude. Smart companies are using internship programs as a “test drive” for talent, hoping that the student will want to return after they graduate.

				Confront the pay issue. The US Department of Labor offers guidelines on internship programs. Just because you call someone an intern doesn’t mean they pass the test to be an “unpaid” intern. Make sure your program follows the law.

				Give managers the tools and resources to effectively manage interns. The goals for interns are different than for regular employees, so supervisors need to be given proper training and guidance.

				Provide interns with the tools to be successful. Just because an intern is only working with you a few months, it doesn’t mean they shouldn’t have office space, training, etc. If you want someone to be effective, give them the tools they need.

				Set goals and hold interns accountable. It’s true that internship programs are providing a learning opportunity. This doesn’t mean that the company can’t hold interns accountable. Goals should be set, and the intern should be held accountable for achieving those goals.

				Document the program. There are three reasons to document your program. The first is compliance. The second is for recruitment. Interns want to know what they will be doing during their internship. Companies need to sell their program and the way to do it—by sharing what happens during the program. The last reason is to remember it from year to year. To keep track of what took place, it’s best to write it down.

				Get feedback and update the program. Think of this step as an exit interview for interns. To keep your internship program fresh, ask interns for feedback. Find out what they enjoyed and ask for one suggestion for future programs. Their feedback can be used to update the program and as information for future interns.

				Measure results. Many graduates today don’t get jobs without internship experience. Being able to share data on how many interns land jobs is valuable information. Obviously, the company wants to know how many interns started and finished the program. They also want to know how many are hired. Depending upon your goals, it might also be helpful to measure program satisfaction from both the manager and intern perspective.

				Stay in touch with interns. Create a mechanism to keep in touch with interns. This not only gives the intern a mentor who will help them be successful, but it also gives the company opportunities to share open positions the intern might be interested in.



			All these opportunities—from coaching and mentoring to internships and global assignments—help with employee career planning and development. Organizations might use all or a few of these programs depending on their needs and resources. The great part is that there are so many to work with. An organization can find the right mix of programs that excite employees and accomplish skill development.





Philosophies, Models, and Theories That Support Succession Planning, Upskilling, and Reskilling


			Earlier in this chapter, we mentioned the skills gap as a reason that succession planning, upskilling, and reskilling are important in career planning. The skills gap happens when the skills of your current workforce don’t align with the skills that they need to do their jobs. In a 2021 McKinsey & Company study, 87 percent of companies responded that they are aware that they already have a skills gap or will have one within the next few years.

			There are many ways that organizations can address the skills gaps in their workforce. SHRM has a how-to guide that outlines three key considerations:

			 				Identify overlooked talent pools. Organizations can tap into the older workforce, formerly incarcerated individuals, individuals with disabilities, veterans, and global talent to find qualified skilled employees.

				Refocus and revise your recruiting processes. Organizations should consider building partnerships with colleges and universities, local workforce and economic-development boards, and community organizations. Add apprenticeships and internships and make the overall hiring process more accessible for applicants and candidates.

				Train your hiring teams. Think of your recruitment team like a project team and give them the skills they need in terms of decision-making, problem-solving, collaboration, and consensus building. These are activities that hiring teams do regularly and they need to be able to do them well.



			Career-Stage Development

			Earlier in this chapter, we talked about dual career paths, in particular as one of the ways to address employee career planning. In this section, I want to share some additional information about career path development but present it in a different way—in terms of early, mid, and late career.

			I think we have to view career paths from multiple angles. If we only look at the stages of an employee’s career, they might not get the opportunity to shine as an SME because we’re focused on how long they’ve been with the company. And if we only focus on their expertise, we might miss other career conversations like mobility and retirement, which could be driven by tenure.

			Early Career Stage

			Employees in the early stages of their career should focus on developing their performance. Here are three areas that every new hire must have a clear understanding of to be successful:

			 				Performance. A key responsibility for any employee is being able to perform the job. Employees should understand their role and how their performance is going to be evaluated. They should know the company’s performance standards. If the employee needs training to do a task, they should receive it.

				Feedback. Employees regularly receive feedback from their manager regarding their performance. In turn, employees should be skilled on giving feedback to the manager and the company. Employees need to be able to communicate what they need to be successful and what roadblocks are keeping them from doing the work.

				Accountability. Organizations hold employees accountable for getting the work done. Employees should hold themselves accountable as well. There are times when we have to hold others accountable, and employees need to know how to do that in a way that doesn’t damage working relationships.



			Midcareer Stage

			In the early stages of an employee’s career, the focus is on building a foundation. Managers have set expectations and created an environment where the employee can be successful. At midcareer, it’s about taking the foundation to the next level. Here are three areas that employees should be developing:

			 				Leadership. The words management and leadership are often used interchangeably. However, they’re not the same thing. Leadership is defined as the ability to influence the behavior of others, which means that anyone and everyone at any level in an organization can be a leader. It’s not a title reserved for management positions. Managers should encourage employees to demonstrate leadership ability in all they do. This is one of those characteristics that will lift the team to high-performing status.

				Meetings. I mentioned earlier that one of the most important activities that employees have is the one-on-one with their manager. Managers take the time to plan this meeting and they should encourage their employees to do the same. This regularly scheduled conversation not only offers an exchange of information but also helps to build trust between employees and managers. Trust is the foundation of positive working relationships and a key component of employee engagement.

				Goal setting. For employees to become truly engaged, they need to learn how to identify and set their own goals. Then, once that happens, they need to regularly communicate with their manager about the status of the goal along with any support needed. It’s another way of building trust with the manager as well as demonstrating personal accountability for getting the job done.



			Late Career Stage

			At first glance, it might be tempting to believe that an employee approaching the late stages of their career would be winding down or doing less. That’s not always the case. Employees during the late states of their career could have a full plate of activities that benefit both them and the organization. Please note: the key phrase here is benefit both them and the organization. The question becomes, “What are those activities?” During the late stages of an employee’s career, the focus should shift to learning and development—not only maintaining our own skills but also teaching others:

			 				Knowledge management. Organizations entrust a lot of history, anecdotes, unwritten policies, and stories to their employees. When employees leave their roles, whether it’s by department transfer, resignation, or retirement, organizations must find ways to preserve that information. Knowledge-management practices allow organizations to formally retain data and information. Employees who participate in knowledge management activities can share their expertise. It can be a win for everyone.

				Train-the-trainer programs. Another opportunity for employees to share expertise in their late career stage is through training programs. Employees can facilitate programs on their own or be a part of a team-teaching partnership with someone from management or the learning and development department. This allows employees to continue to learn while sharing their knowledge with other employees. The key to success is giving employees proper presentation and training skills through a structured train-the-trainer program.

				Second act (or encore career). Studies show that many employees in the late stages of their career are considering a work life in their retirement. Sports professionals call it “unretirement.” Organizations can help employees gain skills and knowledge that they would use during their unretirement. With the challenges in recruiting talent, this could be a benefit to organizations. Employees can be trained for future opportunities to be a part-timer, freelancer, or contractor for the organization as part of their transition to retirement.



			Like dual career paths, the key to bridging skills gaps and supporting employee’s careers is having good conversations. Earlier in this chapter, we defined what HiPo and HiPer employees meant. Now is a good time to talk about how to identify those individuals and keep them engaged. Because that could happen at any stage of an employee’s career.

			Identifying and Developing High-Performing Employees

			Organizations want HiPer employees. They talk about it all the time. Managers will say that they want employees who “perform at a high level.” Senior leaders will say the key to the company’s success is being a “high-performing organization.” It’s important to note that, when we talk about high performance, employees don’t just fall into two categories: high-performing and nonperforming. There are employees who perform satisfactorily on a regular basis. That’s acceptable, but it’s not high performance. Don’t view it as bad, think of it as the difference between good and great.

			High performance is different. And because it is different, managers need to be able to identify HiPer employees and manage them so they continue to be top performers. Here are four qualities found in HiPer employees and tips for managing these qualities, so you maximize them:

			 				Top performers accomplish their goals and seek out additional assignments. Many employees accomplish their goals. But HiPer employees do more than that. They accomplish their goals and say, “What’s next?”Manage goal-driven employees by giving them stretch assignments. Top performers not only want to accomplish more goals, but they’ll seek out opportunities to push their skills and learn new ones. So, work on developing your high-performing employees through the goals you assign them.



				HiPer employees take the initiative to increase their skills. While most employees are open to training and development, top performers don’t wait for their manager to sign them up for a training session. In fact, they might be the employees who are willing to invest their own time and money toward professional development. Developing your HiPer employees just makes sense.

				Managers with top performers will want to have a few extra budget dollars to reward them with professional-development opportunities. Also, to make sure that resources are being directed properly, make sure HiPer employees are truly justifying their participation by sharing their knowledge with the rest of the team.

				HiPer employees seek feedback to improve their performance. Again, most employees are open to feedback. But often the difference is how an individual reacts to the conversation. Top performers intentionally seek feedback for self-awareness and self-improvement.

				Managers should be giving feedback to all employees on a regular basis. It’s just the right thing to do. With top performers, keep in mind the goal—to maintain high performance—and frame those conversations accordingly.

				Lastly, HiPer employees have a relentless drive for quality. If you ask employees, they will tell you they do quality work. Very few employees brag about how they are just “phoning it in.” Top performers have a focus on quality that, to others, could border on relentless (or annoying, depending upon your point of view).Managers will want to find a way to harness this endless pursuit of perfection for good within the organization. It might be possible to allow HiPer employees to work on company project teams or task forces to improve quality.





			Every organization wants HiPer employees. And not all employees have to fall into the high-performing category for the organization to be successful. But one thing is certain, you need to be identifying and developing HiPer employees and managing them effectively to encourage their high performance. Otherwise, the company runs the risk of these employees becoming disengaged and bored. That’s a sure-fire way to lose those HiPer employees.

			At an HR conference a couple of years ago, I heard Dr. Henryk Krajewski, president of The Anderson Leadership Group, talk about the career choices made by employees—especially HiPo and HiPer employees. Krajewski said that HiPo employees select the organization versus the organization selecting them. So why are candidates in the driver’s seat when it comes to the hiring process? It’s because the company’s top performers are responsible for the majority of the organizational output (a.k.a. The Pareto Principle).

			This rationale leads to a bigger question and one that some organizations don’t often like to admit. If the organization’s HiPo and HiPer talent are more valuable because they deliver greater results, then how can companies give those individuals greater rewards without alienating the rest of the workforce?

			It’s important to note when addressing employee wants and needs that the terms “fair” and “equal” are not the same thing. This sounds obvious, but some organizations give employees the exact same things even when employees achieve different results, and they say that the reason they’re doing it is to be “fair.” The reality is the company is being “equal.”

			The goal should be for organizations to provide a “fair” employee experience. Of course, that would include a certain amount of “equal.” For example, Krajewski outlined five qualities that HiPo employees want in their employer:

			 				Honesty from their manager,

				Integrity in senior management,

				Belonging in terms of connecting to the company,

				Camaraderie with the members of their team, and

				Pride in the organization’s mission and values.



			The good news is that every employee wants these things. And chances are that most, if not all, of them cost nothing (at least in terms of hard costs). Organizations making these qualities a priority would be providing a desirable employee experience for everyone while, at the same time, reducing incidents of manager favoritism.

			The other piece of good news from this list is that if organizations commit to creating an environment where all communications are honest, people act with integrity, and everyone works together well, then they can fairly address the three things that HiPo and HiPer employees want and need to be successful:

			 				HiPo employees want to work with managers whom they can look to as role models. The key to creating a fair work environment is honesty and integrity. Organizations should want their current and future leaders to demonstrate these qualities. Allowing HiPo employees to work with their role models creates not only excellent future leaders, but a trusting workplace culture.

				They want opportunities to practice new skills in a safe environment. Whether it’s a formal or informal program, HiPo employees want to know they can learn new things and the organization is going to invest in their future. This can happen through training and development, coaching and mentoring, or unique work assignments. Not everyone is going to receive the same opportunities, but again, it’s about being fair.

				And finally, HiPo employees want to know it’s okay to stumble and possibly even fail. All employees make mistakes. Some of them are big, and others are small. Employees want to know that making an honest mistake isn’t a career-limiting move and that, depending on the situation, they can have the chance to recover. Managers have to be given the tools to train, coach, and mentor employees through their mistakes to improve their already high performance.



			Let’s face facts. While all employees contribute to the organization, some employees contribute more. It’s a fact of business life. Organizations that want to hire, engage, and retain HiPo employees will need to create a work environment that allows them to provide a fair employee experience, because HiPer employees expect it.

			Talent Pools Provide an Alternative to Succession Planning

			Now that we’ve spent some time talking about individuals at different career stages and HiPo and HiPer employees, let’s transition the conversation to groups.

			I realize that the title of this chapter includes succession planning, but organizations are sometimes reluctant to do succession planning because (1) it can be administratively burdensome and (2) organizations are reluctant to tell employees they’re a part of the succession plan.

			Whenever I think of the reasons to tell employees they’re part of the succession plan, I’m reminded of a story from my own career. I was a director of human resources for a company that I really liked. I enjoyed working with my boss, but I was presented with a terrific opportunity and decided to take it.

			The day I walked into my boss’ office to resign, I’ll never forget his words to me: “I’m sorry to see you go. I had such plans for you.”

			My thought? Why didn’t you tell me?

			Even terrific organizations with outstanding benefits will have employees leave. Employees can only make career decisions based upon what they know. If they don’t know you have plans for them, they might seek new opportunities elsewhere.

			On the flip side, telling employees they’re part of the succession plan obviously means you’ve made the plan public and it becomes subject to whispers and lunchroom conversation. As a result, several scenarios can happen:

			 				Some employees will not want to be part of the succession plan. Companies must be prepared for this response. It might be nothing personal, it’s just not a part of the employee’s long-range goals.

				Employees who want to be a part of the succession plan and were not identified could become resentful and disengaged. Keeping these employees engaged will be important.

				The company must be prepared to handle situations where an employee’s performance dips and they should no longer be considered a part of the succession plan. Awkward? Yes, but absolutely necessary.



			All these situations can be managed with open communication. As a company is putting their succession plan together, a discussion should happen about the proper way to communicate the plan both to individuals who are included as well as those who are not.

			Even if the company ultimately decides not to share all the details of their plan, they do need to be prepared to discuss with employees their future with the company. Otherwise, the employee will think they have no future and possibly start looking for new opportunities.

			All this discussion about whether to tell employees they’re part of the succession plan doesn’t change the fact that some sort of workforce skills planning needs to take place. An alternative could be creating talent pools.

			Talent Pools

			Talent pools are groups of employees who are being trained and developed to assume greater responsibilities within the organization. Often, but not always, they have been identified as HiPer and HiPo individuals.

			An internal talent pool allows organizations to develop employees in areas that align with organizational competencies instead of focusing on developing specific position skills. This allows a talent pool to address the biggest challenge with succession planning, which is telling individuals they’re part of the plan. Organizations can communicate to a group, “You’re the future of the company,” instead of telling an individual, “You are our next chief marketing officer.”

			In addition, talent pools provide the flexibility needed in emerging or developing industries. Some industries are moving so quickly that they don’t know what next year looks like, much less what their five-year recruiting strategy should include. That unpredictability can make traditional succession planning efforts difficult and talent pools an ideal tool. However, creating a talent pool takes some planning. Here are four proven steps to developing an organizational talent pool for your organization:

			 				Review organizational strategies. Much of the information regarding strategy has already been gathered as part of the workforce planning activity. So, the goal here is to identify the competencies needed to make those strategies happen. In the future, the strategies will change, but the competencies may remain the same. An example is critical thinking skills. Regardless of the strategy, critical thinking is a necessary competency.

				Assess the company’s current talent to identify any skills gaps. Again, this information was gathered during the staffing analysis and workforce planning activity. Organizations can accomplish this step using a variety of techniques, including performance reviews, assessments, multirater feedback, and interviews. A combination of techniques could prove to be exceptionally valuable. The key consideration is consistency.

				Create modules or groups of activities that will help employees learn the skills they need. Once the organization identifies the skills it will help employees in the talent pool develop, recruitment can work with learning and development to figure out the process. A combination of internal and external training and project-based learning may be useful. Three activities proven to be very effective include the following:Management coaching. Good managers have valued relationships with their employees. They are positioned to deliver open, honest feedback that can help employees change behaviors and improve performance.

Peer-to-peer feedback. Organizations spend an incredible amount of time collaborating. Peer-to-peer interaction is how most employees spend their time. Training employees to deliver timely, specific feedback can make an impact.

Mentoring. Organizations can encourage mentoring relationships to cover topics that don’t necessarily warrant a training program—like office politics and negotiation skills. Employees can benefit from the wisdom of experience.





				Monitor progress and make regular adjustments. Like all activities, talent pools need to be monitored. The organization should conduct regular talent assessments and observe market conditions. Both internal and external factors can prompt a change in talent development strategy.



			The talent wars aren’t going away anytime soon. Organizations must think about the future. They are not going to be able to find all the talent they need via external recruiting. Talent pools allow companies to develop future talent from within. They also give businesses the flexibility to meet their fluid operational needs.

			If your organization likes the idea of a talent pool, you might be saying, “This is great, but how do we identify who should be a part of the talent pool?” Well, consider using a nine-box grid.

			Table 7.1 Sample Nine-Box Grid

			 				 					 					 					 					 				 				 					 						 						 							Under performance

						 						 							Effective performance

						 						 							Outstanding performance



				 				 					 						 							High potential

						 						 							Box 5

							Seasoned professional capable of expanded role, but may be experiencing problems that require coaching and mentoring.

						 						 							Box 2

							Does extremely well at current job with potential to do more; give stretch assignments to help prepare for next level.

						 						 							Box 1

							Consistently performs well in a variety of assignments; superstar employee. Big picture thinker; problem-solver; self-motivated.



					 						 							Medium potential

						 						 							Box 8

							With coaching, could progress within level; focus on stretch goals for this employee.

						 						 							Box 6

							May be considered for job enlargement at the same level, but may need coaching in several areas, including people management.

						 						 							Box 3

							Current role may still provide opportunity for growth/development; focused on tactical; focus should be on helping improve strategic thinking.



					 						 							Low potential

						 						 							Box 9

							May be a candidate for reassignment, reclassification to a lower level or to exit the organization.

						 						 							Box 7

							Effective performer, but may have reached career potential; try to coach employee on becoming more innovative, to focus on lateral thinking.

						 						 							Box 4

							Experienced high performer but has reached limit of career potential. Still a valuable employee and can be encouraged to develop communications and delegation skills.



				 			 			The nine-box grid is commonly used as a tool in employee development and modern succession planning. The top axis reflects employee performance, and the side axis reflects employee potential. Each box represents an individual’s progress in those areas. For example, an employee with low performance and high potential would be in box five, indicating they could use some mentoring and coaching.

			Organizations often use the nine-box grid as part of an internal talent review. It helps them to understand where employees are currently in their development. The nine-box grid can also help organizations identify areas where making an investment in development could be beneficial. For example, if a talent review shows that current employees are performing well but not open to taking on new assignments, then the organization might need to evaluate their promotion and transfer guidelines, processes, and so on.

			From a succession-planning or talent-pool perspective, a nine-box grid tracks the progress of future-leader development. It takes a snapshot in time and the organization can examine if their efforts to develop talent are progressing at the rate they expected.

			The advantages of using the nine-box grid include its ease of use and the shared sense of ownership in terms of talent development. Using the nine-box system is an organizational activity that involves the entire management team—from the talent review to the employee-development plans.

			I wish I could say that there’s one proven way to develop an employee’s future skills, but there’s not. The good news is that this gives organizations a huge amount of flexibility to design succession planning, upskilling, and reskilling programs that work for their employees.





Legal Considerations in Succession Planning, Upskilling, and Reskilling


			While we’ve discussed many of the legal considerations that impact succession planning, upskilling, and reskilling already, I don’t want to minimize them in this chapter. Here’s a brief reminder of a few key pieces of legislation that can impact these activities:

			 				In Chapter 2 (Talent Acquisition), we talked about Title VII of the Civil Rights Act and discrimination. Employees want to know what it takes to be successful in their jobs and they will want to know that the organization is supporting everyone at the same level.

				Also in Chapter 2, we discussed the Americans with Disabilities Act and the Age Discrimination in Employment Act. When we talk about supporting employees, organizations want to make sure that individuals with disabilities are able to achieve success in their careers and that as individuals age, they feel that they still have opportunities available to them.

				In Chapter 5 (Employee Value Proposition), we discussed the Fair Labor Standards Act and the Equal Pay Act. As employees progress in their careers, their compensation and benefits will change. It’s important for organizations to create an EVP that is equitable for all.

				In Chapter 6 (Learning and Development), we mentioned equal employment opportunity (EEO). It should be no surprise that when we talk about future opportunities in the organization they will be free from discrimination.





Technology and Succession Planning, Upskilling, and Reskilling


			In the last chapter, we talked about learning management systems, so we won’t go over that again here. Keep in mind that your learning management system can help the organization deliver and keep track of training.

			There is one thing that we haven’t discussed yet when it comes to technology and learning and that’s the concept of blended learning. Basically, blended learning is in-person plus online learning. Examples would be if a group attends a half-day seminar in person then two online sessions or if a group attends an inperson seminar and then completes two e-learning modules.

			I thought it would be good to mention it in this chapter because I can see skills development being a process that includes many different types of learning activities, some in-person and some online.

			The advantage of blended learning is that it can be cost effective. It allows participants to experience multiple learning styles, which can be more enjoyable for the learner. The downside is that organizations must rely on participants to do the homework.

			Hybrid learning is another in-person and online format; however, it’s when the participants are online and in person at the same time, meaning the instructor is also online and in person at the same time. A conference where 60 percent of participants are listening to a session live and in person while 40 percent are listening to the same session online at the same time is an example of hybrid learning.

			The advantages of hybrid learning include its ability to scale and convey information quickly, which could be valuable with time-sensitive information. The disadvantages might involve limiting the type of learning experience to lecture and the facilitator getting distracted trying to manage two groups.





Common Practices in Succession Planning, Upskilling, and Reskilling


			There’s a really great case study in Harvard Business Review titled “AT&T’s Talent Overhaul” that’s worth the read. I had the chance to hear former AT&T CEO Randall Stephenson tell the story at a conference, so I’ll try to paraphrase it here.

			Some people might not know this, but many decades ago, AT&T was a telephone company. That means that a lot of their employees were telephone operators. At some point in time, AT&T decided they wanted to transition their business from being the telephone company to the global telecommunications company they are today.

			But this also meant that AT&T needed to figure out what they were going to do with all the people who were working as telephone operators. Some companies would have just said, “When we don’t need telephone operators anymore, we’ll just eliminate the jobs.” But AT&T didn’t do that, even though they faced a big challenge—they didn’t know exactly what the jobs of the future looked like.

			What AT&T did know was the competencies they would need from employees in the future. So, they put together training programs for employees to earn “merit badges” in the competencies the company would need in the future. As AT&T was able to identify future jobs, they would let employees know the merit badges that were required to apply for the job.

			Personally, what I love about this story is that not only did AT&T upskill and reskill employees for future jobs, but they let the employees decide what they wanted to learn.

			Not every organization will face the large-scale skill development project that AT&T did, but it’s a good reminder for organizations to have well-defined job posting and job bidding programs in place. Job posting programs are designed to tell employees what jobs are open at the company and how they can apply for them. Job bidding programs allow employees to express an interest in a job before it becomes available.





Measuring and Evaluating the Effectiveness of Your Succession Planning, Upskilling, and Reskilling Programs


			When I think of succession planning, upskilling, and reskilling, I think of them as actions that the organization takes to ensure their long-term business success. They’re actions that help them avoid an obstacle.

			Businesses always have some sort of problems they want to solve. It could be small problems or a large ones. The key to solving business problems is gathering the right data and information and having a good approach or system for problem-solving. Unfortunately, there are times when organizations approach problem-solving from the standpoint of “Oh, I know what the problem is . . .” and ultimately, end up only addressing a symptom versus the real issue. I’m sure you’ve seen it too.

			One approach to take for better data gathering and problem-solving would be to use analytics. Here’s an overview of the four analytics levels and how they could be applied to address a challenge many organizations face: employee retention.

			 				Descriptive analytics is focused on what’s happened. The first step in solving most problems is figuring out what’s taken place—that’s descriptive analytics. The organization wants to collect information and data on the who, what, when, and where. The good news is that, with technology, you might be able to gather this information easily.



			An example might be reviewing exit-interview data to see if there are any trends for why employees are leaving, when they resign, and what positions and departments the employees work in.

			 				Diagnostic analytics answers the question of why it happened. Using information from step one (descriptive analytics), the organization might be able to reach some conclusions about the situation. A technology solution might provide assistance in filtering the data in different ways to explore new causes and correlations.



			For instance, the organization might discover that managers tend to resign in March or April (right after they receive their annual bonus) or many new hires are leaving the marketing department within their introductory period. (I’m not making any judgements about marketing departments here. It’s just an example.)

			 				Predictive analytics is about what will happen. I like to think of this step as asking how the situation will play out. If the contributing factors don’t change, what will the situation look like? If only one factor is changed, how will that impact the outcome?



			Companies can’t and probably don’t want to make lots of changes at one time. They want to implement change logically and use their resources wisely. Using a phased approach can also help individuals plan, accept, and embrace change.

			 				Prescriptive analytics points toward what we should do. In the predictive-analytics stage, the organization considers all the options. In the prescriptive-analytics phase, decisions are made.



			For example, using our turnover and employee-retention situation, the organization might decide to focus on stay interviews. Managers can ask a stay interview question during regular one-on-one meetings. HR might add a stay interview question to new hire onboarding check-ins and regular pulse surveys.



			Figure 7.2 The Four Analytics Levels

			Yes, organizations can measure the individual programs they create using the Kirkpatrick Model that we discussed in the previous chapter. This is where I believe succession planning, upskilling, and reskilling are different from just learning and development. They are all important activities, but reskilling, upskilling, and succession planning are tied to how the organization is going to operate in the future. Organizations can use the principles of analytics to help them identify problems and brainstorm solutions using data as the driving factor.





Additional Resources on Succession Planning, Upskilling, and Reskilling


			There are a few places in this chapter where we could have really done a deep dive into the topic, but then again, it would have involved writing another book. I’ve put together a list of terrific books to keep the conversation going:

			Levit, Alexandra. Humanity Works: Merging Technologies and People for the Workforce of the Future. New York: Kogan Page, 2019.

			If you’re trying to figure out what’s on the horizon when it comes to technology and the world of work, this book by Alexandra Levit does a great job of sharing the research. Consider using it as part of your next PESTLE analysis or environmental scan.

			Rothwell, William J. Effective Succession Planning: Ensuring Leadership Continuity and Building Talent from Within. New York: AMACOM, 2016.

			Organizations that want to create a succession plan can use this book as the A-to-Z guide. I would recommend getting the latest edition which includes guidance on succession planning for small- and medium-sized businesses and nonprofits.

			Emelo, Randy. Modern Mentoring. Alexandria, VA: ATD Press, 2015.

			I know not every organization wants to create and monitor a mentoring program. This book focuses on building a mentoring culture versus a mentoring program. I really enjoyed the section on the advantages (and challenges) of using gaming techniques in mentoring.

			Fitz-enz, Jac, and John R. Mattox II. Predictive Analytics for Human Resources. Hoboken, NJ: Wiley, 2014.

			I recommended Fitz-enz’s book How to Measure HR Management earlier in this book. If you like his writing style, then pick this one up. It’s an easy read on applying predictive analytics to HR problems.

			Waters, Shonna D., Valerie N. Streets, Lindsay McFarlane, and Rachael Johnson-Murray. The Practical Guide to HR Analytics: Using Data to Inform, Transform, and Empower HR Decisions. Alexandria, VA: Society for Human Resource Management, 2018.

			This is another terrific book on HR analytics. What I liked about this book was that Dr. Shonna Waters is the former vice president of research at SHRM and brings the data to life with real HR examples.





Skills Development Works When It’s a Part of Company Culture


			At the beginning of this book, we talked about planning for the future, and I believe chapters like this one bring it full circle. Organizations must think about the future and their talent. It’s imperative to business success. They need to prepare employees for learning new ways of doing business.

			And those conversations with employees shouldn’t happen right before a change is made; they should be happening all the time because sometimes changes in the business mean employees will be making changes as well. They might transfer, get a promotion, make a lateral move, or even resign. In the next chapter, we’ll talk about employee transitions and the need to do them right.





OceanofPDF.com





Chapter 8


			Internal and External Transitions


			 				Why Are Employee Transitions Important?

				Ten Employee Transition Terms You Should Know

				Common Philosophies, Models, and Theories That Support Employee Transitions

				Legal Considerations with Employee Transitions

				Technology and Employee Transitions

				Best Practices in Employee Transitions

				Measuring the Effectiveness of Employee Transitions

				Additional Resources Related to Employee Transitions

				Transitioning Employees Reflect Your Organization





Why Are Employee Transitions Important?


			Obviously, transitions and turnover can be expensive—both in terms of recruiting costs and knowledge loss. Organizations want to be focused on retention. It totally makes sense. However, it’s unrealistic to think that transitions and turnover won’t exist. So, organizations need to think about the amount of activity that is going to be acceptable.

			Employees are going to stay for a few years and then move on. Employees are going to retire. All of that is okay. Transitions and turnover do not have to always be viewed as bad.

			In short, employees who transition to a new role—whether they transfer to a different department or leave the company—can still talk about the organization. They can tell potential customers what a great product or service the company has—or not. They can tell potential candidates that you’re a great place to work—or not. Regardless of the reason that a person is transitioning, there’s absolutely no reason not to treat them with respect.

			Because turnover is a big part of employee transitions, let’s examine some of the reasons that employees leave.

			I mentioned before the old saying that “employees don’t leave jobs, they leave managers,” and it’s often true. Throughout my career, I’ve talked to hundreds of employees who love the company and their work, but they couldn’t stand their manager, so they leave. Sometimes they will just transfer to a different department or another location. Sometimes they will leave the organization altogether.

			When an employee leaves because of a manager, it’s a shame. The organization spends a lot of time and resources to select a manager. You’d like to think that they would make sure the manager is successful by providing onboarding, training, development, mentoring, coaching, and so on.

			However, sometimes, when an employee says they’re leaving because of their manager, it’s okay because the manager is doing all the right things and the employee just doesn’t like it. In those instances, we can’t do anything but wish the employee well.

			But there’s a third reason an employee leaves: it’s not always the manager or employee’s fault. Sometimes the organization needs to accept responsibility. Here are three examples that are neither the manager nor the employee’s fault:

			 				When a job is poorly designed, employees leave. Poorly designed jobs can be boring and unfulfilling. This is where terms like “soul crushing” come from. Employees want and need to have purpose and a connection to the business. This keeps them engaged and helps them stay. Managers and employees don’t always have input into job design. And they probably should. They don’t have to design the entire job, but their feedback could be valuable in terms of employee retention.

				When the job pays poorly, employees leave. I’m defining pay here as salary plus benefits and perks. I’ve had jobs in my career where I wasn’t making lots of money, but the benefits were fantastic. You must look at the total package. If employees aren’t being paid competitively to the external market and fair internally, they will eventually figure it out, and then they will act.

				If a job offers no growth opportunities, employees leave. Many employees will take a poorly designed job with terrible pay because they know that future opportunities exist that are excellent. While an employee’s current manager might have some say in whether an employee is promoted, if the opportunity doesn’t exist, then it doesn’t matter what kind of say the manager has. It’s about availability.



			I don’t want to imply that managers and employees have no control over work design, compensation, and promotional opportunities—because they do. The question is if they have enough.

			In my experience, I’ve seen managers try to create new opportunities for employees, fight for pay increases, and suggest new ways for employees to do the work, only to have their ideas shot down by senior management. From the employee’s view, it looks like the manager doesn’t care. Yes, the manager can tell the employee that they tried but senior management said “no”—effectively throwing senior management under the bus—but that’s not really the best approach. So many managers simply take the hit. The employee leaves and says it’s because the manager isn’t supportive.

			I certainly hope that when those situations happen, organizations step back for a second and ask themselves, “Was it really the manager or was it us?” If it truly was the manager, get them the tools they need to become better. If it wasn’t, find a way to create a culture that doesn’t blame managers for things not under their control.

			One of the other reasons that employee transitions are important is because former employees might want to come back—either in a full-time or freelancing capacity. Individuals might find that the grass isn’t always greener at another organization. They might also spend a few years acquiring skills that they couldn’t get inside the organization and be in a great position to boomerang back.

			Organizations can also find themselves in the position of needing a niche skill that a former employee was tremendously good at. The former employee might be willing to do some work for the company on the side. Employees aren’t going to be receptive to returning—even in a freelancer role—if they had a poor employee experience.

			The final aspect of employee transitions that organizations need to think about is retirement and, specifically, phased-retirement strategies. Many organizations don’t have structured phased-retirement programs in place. Frankly, a lot of organizations don’t have structured retirement programs.

			Organizations continue to struggle with finding qualified talent. The job market has shifted in the candidate’s favor. For individuals looking to stay in the workforce longer, those opportunities exist.

			Here’s where I think the challenge lies. I’m not sure phased-retirement programs have a lot of history or established best practices. Phased retirement isn’t simply going part-time. It involves communication, planning, and training.

			Both employees and organizations need to be willing to initiate the conversation about phased retirement. It’s a transition process. All parties need to be open to the notion of doing a trial run or beta arrangement. Then, they must debrief their experiences to make the next time better.

			From an employee perspective, phased-retirement transitions can be exciting and fun. For organizations, they are a business decision. For both, it can be a win-win where work, phased retirement, and retirement are concerned.

			Employee transitions can take many forms: transfers, terminations, or retirements. That’s fine. Transitions will happen. Organizations need to be prepared for them because the people take their employee experience with them for the rest of their lives. Organizations have to decide if they are going to let a person take a good or not-so-good experience with them.





Ten Employee Transition Terms You Should Know


			As you saw in the chapter introduction, there are many different types of transitions. They’re not all bad. In fact, some of them are perfect in terms of what an employee needs to be successful. It could benefit organizations to think about all the different transition opportunities available when it comes to managing talent.

			Transfers

			Transfers happen when an employee moves from one area of the organization to another, typically, from one department, division, or location to another. It could also involve a promotion, demotion, or lateral move. Most organizations have a process in place for accepting employee transfer requests. The SHRM website has an “Internal Transfer or Reassignment Request” template you can download and review.

			Promotions

			Promotions take place when an employee is given a new job that has a higher salary range. It could include an increase in benefits, like bonuses. Often, a promotion involves a job-title change as well. Promotions might be initiated by the company, or an employee might apply for an open position that would include a promotion. On the SHRM website, you can find the templates “Job Posting Policy,” “Staff Promotions,” as well as a “Promotion Announcement.”

			Lateral Moves

			Lateral moves happen when an employee changes their job but doesn’t change their job level. Lateral moves are sometimes referred to as horizontal or sideways moves. The new job is equal in terms of career level and compensation. Lateral moves are great for providing employees with new work experiences and building new relationships. The downside of a lateral move is that sometimes people might not understand the career strategy behind it and mistakenly think it’s a demotion.

			Demotions

			Demotions occur when an employee changes their position to one that has a lower salary range. This can happen at the request of the company or the employee. On the SHRM website, there are a couple of articles that could be helpful when managing an employee demotion: “How Should We Handle Employee Demotions?” and “How to Manage an Employee Who’s Been Demoted.”

			Retention

			Retention is defined as the organization’s ability to prevent turnover. It can be calculated as a percentage. The formula for retention rate is the number of employees that stayed with the company divided by the number of employees you started with. SHRM has an article titled “How Do I Calculate Retention?” where you can walk through examples.

			Retention is different from turnover, which is defined as the number of people who left the organization. Turnover is traditionally viewed as a metric and organizations can decide how they want to calculate that metric. For example, some organizations don’t include involuntary terminations in their turnover calculation because a layoff is the result of an employer decision.

			While organizations can calculate employee retention, it’s often viewed as a strategy. Retention answers the question, “How did the organization keep their talent?”

			Termination

			Termination refers to the end of an employee’s work with the company. The end can be voluntary, meaning the employee initiated it (as in a resignation or retirement) or involuntary, meaning the company initiated it (like a layoff or firing).

			When it comes to the topic of an involuntary termination, as in firing, I know there are a lot of people who cringe at the thought. My philosophy is that employees play an active role in the decision to get themselves fired.

			That’s why I never (let me repeat that) never feel bad about terminating an employee. Because I didn’t tell them to do whatever they did to get themselves terminated. I didn’t tell them to show up late for work. I didn’t tell them to surf NSFW (not safe for work) sites on company time. The employee made the decision to do these things and they must accept responsibility for their actions.

			If management is doing their job, then employees know what is expected of them. They also know when they aren’t meeting expectations. I’ve had employees shake my hand after being fired. Why? Because they knew it was coming and the conversation was done with dignity. It’s when employees don’t know what’s expected or managers don’t hold employees accountable that discipline and terminations become surprises, and no one likes those kinds of surprises.

			Speaking of management, let me add that I believe it’s the responsibility of an employee’s immediate supervisor to deliver the termination message, not HR. Now, realistically speaking, does someone from HR usually end up in the room while the termination meeting is being conducted? Yes. But the supervisor should say the words, not HR. It’s unfortunate when HR must intervene during a termination conversation (and I’ve had to do it plenty of times) because a supervisor is botching things up. Managers should be given the proper training to deliver these kinds of tough messages.

			I know this might sound really harsh, but I don’t feel it’s inappropriate to hold people accountable. Being disciplined, suspended, or even terminated shouldn’t be a surprise. Encourage managers to set expectations, coach for performance, and hold people accountable. If you do everything you can, then if a termination conversation does take place, you can rest easy knowing that you did everything possible to make the employee successful.

			If you’re looking for help to develop some manager training on how to deliver a termination message, one of the places to consider is your friendly labor attorney. It’s possible they have a guide or a webinar recording that you can use. Mark Neuberger, a labor and employment attorney with the firm Foley & Lardner LLP, told me about a guide his firm prepared titled “Terminating Employees: How to Fire Right” which outlines the details when it comes to termination. Neuberger explained the reason his firm created the guide:

			Terminating an employee is one of the most difficult and stressful tasks a manager has to perform. Throughout my years of advising employers on employment issues, I have, on a number of occasions, received a call from a senior-level executive who sheepishly admits they have never had to fire someone. (Presumably, they always were able to delegate the unsightly task.) They want to know, “How do I do this?” The guide is my attempt to help them through a difficult process and have them do it in a way that is both humane while at the same time reducing the chance of a legal challenge.

			Neuberger added,

			The whole purpose of a guide like this is to get managers as comfortable as possible with what is always a very uncomfortable situation. The best way I know to do that is to prepare and anticipate. Through preparation, and even rehearsal, the manager can become more comfortable in delivering the bad news. If the person delivering the termination decision appears overly nervous and unsure, the employee will likely perceive this as “the company has made a mistake.” You never want to send that signal. At the same time, you want to anticipate every possible reaction and have a prepared strategy for how you will respond.

			Whether it’s your first time or not, terminating an employee is never easy. Having a guide to help you plan is a good idea.

			Resignation

			Resignation is when an employee decides to leave their job. We’ve already talked about resignations in this chapter. The reason I wanted to include the definition of resignation is because there might be a few things the company needs to consider after an employee resigns:

			 				Have a policy about guests visiting the office. This is just a good policy to have in general. Offices are work environments. Companies might want to have guidelines about employees “hanging out” when they’re off duty, and they might want to have a policy about guests visiting the workplace. That includes family, friends, and former employees.

				Follow-up with employees who do a “no call, no show.” It’s possible that an employee who doesn’t call or show up for work is in fact resigning. It’s also possible that the employee has been in an accident or had a family emergency, so companies should try to contact employees who do not show up for their scheduled shift.

				Don’t make current employees choose sides. Whether an employee resigns voluntarily or involuntarily, they still have friends inside the company. Don’t make employees choose between their former coworker and the company. Treat employees as adults and hold them accountable for conducting themselves in a professional manner.

				Wish the employee well. Regardless of the circumstances of the employee’s departure, always wish the employee well. Even if they were the worst employee you’ve ever hired, let them leave with as much dignity and respect as possible. I’ve run into employees in the grocery store that I fired months earlier and they stopped to say hello.

				Discuss goals for the notice period. If an employee resigns and is providing a two-week notice, find time to talk about current projects. Figure out what can be accomplished before the employee leaves. Talk about having debriefs so the exiting employee can transition work tasks smoothly before they leave.

				Explain offboarding. Employees do not know what happens when they resign. They just know that they’re leaving. So, they will have questions about their vacation balance, health insurance, 401(k), etc. Make sure that employees know the company will answer their questions.

				Schedule an exit interview. Often, exit interviews are conducted by HR or an external third party. Sometimes they happen during an employee’s notice period, or they happen a couple of weeks after an employee leaves. However your organization conducts exit interviews, let the employee know and encourage them to give honest feedback.

				Talk with HR and department managers about workload. Chances are the company is going to be a few days, weeks, or months without a replacement hire. That means the company needs to figure out how the work is going to get done. Organizations can pay employees overtime, hire a freelancer, or look at other options.

				Don’t hesitate to call your employment attorney. At any point in this process, companies should call their legal counsel if something doesn’t feel right or they have questions. That’s why HR pros develop a relationship with an attorney. Instead of taking action and regretting it, spend an hour and talk it out.



			The way an employee resigns says a lot about them. The same holds true for the company and how they handle exiting employees. Both the employee and the organization have obligations when it’s time to part ways.

			Reduction in Force

			Reduction in force (RIF) is an employer-initiated permanent separation from the company. By contrast, a furlough is considered a forced reduction in hours or leave during which the employee might still receive benefits, and a layoff is a temporary termination of employment with the expectation that the employer will bring the employee back at some point, though it’s not a guarantee. On the SHRM website, there are several resources to help HR professionals if they are considering a furlough, layoff, or RIF. Here’s a list of a few articles you can search for on the SHRM site:

			 				“Fairer Layoffs Series”;

				“How to Conduct a Layoff or Reduction in Force”;

				“RIF policy: Selection and Severance Pay”;

				“Checklist: Reduction in Force Strategy and Selection”; and

				“Deciding Who Stays and Who Goes, Notifying Employees, and a Plan for Saying Goodbye.”



			Retirement

			Retirement is defined by Merriam-Webster as the act of ending your working or professional career. While employees make the decision about when they want to retire, organizations have to think about the implications of their employees retiring. In the SHRM article, “How to Make Your Organization Retirement-Ready,” author Theresa Agovino shares five business considerations:

			 				Make sure senior executives are committed to the plan. Changes will be enacted more easily if employees understand that management considers the policies a priority.

				Determine your organization’s goals. Extensively survey all levels of the corporate hierarchy. Conduct focus groups to delve deeper into the company’s needs and employees’ mindsets.

				Define what you want to elicit from employees. Are you trying to get long-term employees to stay full time? Go part time? Freelance? As mentors? Do you want to make it easier for them to leave?

				Be specific. Outline exactly who is eligible for each program to avoid conflicts and misunderstandings. If you opt to offer phased retirement for only certain segments of the workforce, for example, explain the rationale to everyone. Conversations about age and retirement are fraught with potential liability issues. Choose your words carefully.

				Promote the plan vigorously. Put up banners in the office. Hold educational meetings. Older employees may be reluctant to work part time because they worry the decision might be held against them. Send clear signals that it is okay.



			SHRM has partnered with AARP for many years to provide information to make the transition to retirement a better experience—for the employee and employer. You can search both the SHRM and AARP websites for employer resources.

			Boomerang Employees

			Boomerang employees are individuals who used to work for the organization and have come back. In some places, they might be called rehires. Unfortunately, companies don’t tap into this resource nearly enough. Over the years, I’ve worked for companies that placed a great emphasis on rehired or boomerang employees. We even dedicated time and resources to having a strategy that would encourage boomerangs. There are several reasons why:

			 				The company knows them. Boomerang employees have a history of proven skills with the organization. Their strengths are known. Their accomplishments are recorded on performance appraisals. Their personality and demeanor are remembered by coworkers and management.

				They might have increased their skills and experience after leaving. Consider this: While that former employee hasn’t been working for you, they’ve been gaining knowledge and experience that they could never get with your organization. They bring a new perspective. That has value.

				They know the company. Every organization has their unique quirks and flaws. Guess what? Chances are this former employee knows them. And if they’re talking with you about coming back, chances are they can live with them.



			Organizations can create an environment that encourages rehires and boomerang employees using these three strategies:

			 				Treat exiting employees with respect. I know it sounds obvious, but when employees resign, wish them well even if you and the employee don’t exactly get along and even when they resign at the worst possible time. Take the high road, even if the employee mentions a few complaints in their exit interview.



			Boomerang employees don’t have to return to the same job with the same boss. They don’t have to return to the same status (i.e., a full-time employee might come back part time). It’s possible the employee would be a perfect fit in another department. It’s also possible the employee has learned just how good they had it when they were working with you.

			 				Have a defined offboarding process. Part of giving employees respect is providing a consistent offboarding process. Make sure the employee gets information about COBRA, final paychecks, and so on. Encourage them to participate in an exit interview. Maybe create an alumni network for former employees to get information.



			Offboarding is the last impression the employee has of the company. It’s an opportunity. Do you want it to be efficient, effective, and thoughtful or inconsistent, disorganized, and incomplete?

			 				Allow former employees to stay in touch. Just because an employee doesn’t work for the organization anymore, that doesn’t mean you can’t talk with them. I know, this sounds like another obvious remark, but I know employers that view former employees as being “against” them.



			Depending upon the situation, former employees might be willing to do some freelance work for the company. It’s a great way for them to stay in touch. It’s also possible you will run into them during professional association or industry events. And of course, you can connect with them on social media.

			Former employees can be great future employees. Organizations need to include them in their recruiting strategy.





Common Philosophies, Models, and Theories That Support Employee Transitions


			You’ve already heard some common themes in this chapter about employee transitions. Things like hold people accountable, always wish a departing employee well, and call your employment attorney if you need them. There are a few other concepts to keep in mind.

			Knowledge Management

			According to IBM, knowledge management (KM) is the process of identifying, organizing, storing, and disseminating information within an organization. When information is not easily accessible, it can be costly to the company because employees are spending a lot of time trying to find it.

			In most organizations, there are three types of information (a.k.a. knowledge) that they’re trying to maintain: tacit, explicit, and implicit.

			 				Tacit knowledge is typically acquired through experience, and it is intuitively understood. An example of tacit knowledge might be the best practices of the company’s top salesperson. Because tacit knowledge comes from experience, it can be challenging to articulate and transfer to other individuals.

				Explicit knowledge is captured within various document types such as manuals, reports, and guides. It’s probably the most well-known form of knowledge and intellectual capital within an organization. Companies use explicit knowledge often to successfully facilitate knowledge transfer to new employees.

				Implicit knowledge might also be referred to as know-how. For instance, the company might ask every salesperson to prepare a weekly report. How each salesperson generates their weekly report is implicit knowledge. It’s the application of explicit knowledge. Implicit knowledge isn’t necessarily difficult to organize or share, often organizations simply haven’t done it.



			To make information easier to locate, organizations should create a KM strategy. In this strategy, organizations need to complete the following:

			 				Define the types of knowledge that exist across the organization and prioritize those types of knowledge that are critical to operations;

				Agree on how the organization will collect knowledge from key stakeholders and SMEs;

				Create a process for reviewing knowledge to maintain its accuracy and relevance;

				Designate a central location for knowledge to reside, ensuring that it is safe from manipulation; and

				Communicate and encourage knowledge sharing throughout the organization.



			KM systems allow the organization to maintain information critical to the organization’s success. When an employee is transitioning to a new role, KM is often an afterthought. The good news is, when an employee is transitioning to a new department or location, we can pick up the phone and ask a few questions. But when the employee leaves the organization, it’s not as easy.

			And frankly, when employees transition, they should be able to focus on their new role. Knowledge management should have a greater priority within organizations. It allows the company to feel confident they have the knowledge they need for ongoing success.

			Exit Interviews

			I’m really glad this book has a chapter on employee transitions. We spend a lot of time talking about onboarding and the beginning of a person’s career. It’s important to give comparable time to the end of the employment cycle and exit interviews.

			Conducting exit interviews can be a valuable experience for any organization. Provided, of course, that the exit interview is done for the right reasons and with proper planning. If you’re doing exit interviews to get the heads-up on whether the departing employee plans to file a lawsuit against the company, well, that might be good information to know but it’s not really the best use of an exit interview.

			The best reason organizations conduct exit interviews is to get information about an employee’s experience with the company. This information could be valuable on its own or used with other exit interview data. To gather relevant information, you’ll want to look at two things: (1) asking the right questions and (2) having the right process. To create the right questionnaire, you can do a quick search on your favorite internet browser for “SHRM exit interviews” and several articles, resources, and templates will appear. This will provide you with more than enough information to create an exit interview questionnaire.

			Now, when it comes to process, it’s not as straightforward. Here are a few questions to consider:

			 				Who would conduct the exit interview? Many companies have an employee’s supervisor administer the exit interview. This might not be a good idea, especially if the employee had an issue with their supervisor. It’s possible the employee will not feel comfortable sharing their honest thoughts, which are what you’re trying to gather.

				Another option would be to have HR conduct the interview. Since HR is considered the keeper of employee references, I’m not sure that employees will want to open up to HR. They might not want to burn any bridges. This has the potential to become an exercise in futility. If you really want employees to provide open, honest, and unfiltered feedback (and yes, you do), consider engaging a neutral, third party to conduct the interview.

				When do you conduct the interview? Some companies like to do exit interviews at the point a person announces their resignation. I’m an advocate for waiting not only until after a person leaves the company but even giving them a couple of weeks. In my experience, time allows employees to gain perspective. I’ve seen many situations where departing employees were upset with the company or their manager. A couple weeks later, they still aren’t happy but they’re able to talk about it with less emotion and offer valuable constructive feedback.

				What’s the purpose of the interview? It is possible that an employee’s desire to leave on good terms drives their answers regarding their resignation. For example, when an employee tells you they’re resigning for a job that pays more, offers better benefits, and allows for flexible scheduling—all of that might be true. But what the employee didn’t tell you was that the catalyst which started them looking for this new opportunity in the first place was that their manager is a jerk.



			The purpose of an exit interview is not only to find out why an employee is leaving but to learn what made them start looking for a new employer in the first place—that is, checking out job opportunities on LinkedIn, taking the search firm’s call, engaging a headhunter, and so on.

			Once organizations discover the real reasons that people are leaving, they have a decision to make: file it away or take action. Organizations that truly want to improve the workplace and increase engagement will create an exit interview process that yields good results. And they will include in the process a solid plan to review and act on those results. With good information, the organization can incorporate positive change and, hopefully, reduce the need for more exit interviews.





Legal Considerations with Employee Transitions


			Employee transitions can be incredibly complex. There are a few laws to keep in mind and as always, please don’t forget to utilize your favorite labor and employment attorney when you have questions.

			Employment-at-Will

			Employment-at-will is a legal doctrine that states that an employment relationship may be terminated by the employer or employee at any time and for any or no reason as long as no laws are violated. Some form of employment-at-will is recognized in all states (except Montana) and can be nullified by an express or implied employment contract.

			On the SHRM website, you can find an “At-Will Employment Policy Statement” document and an “Employment-at-Will Training” presentation.

			Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act

			The Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act (WARN Act) requires employers with one hundred or more full-time employees to provide sixty days written advance notification of plant closings and mass layoffs to employees, bargaining unit(s), and state and local government officials. The act defines these events:

			 				A plant closing is defined as (1) a single site of employment that is permanently or temporarily shut down; (2) the shutdown must result in an employment loss of six months or a 50 percent reduction in hours over a six-month period; and (3) the shutdown must impact fifty or more full-time employees during any thirty-day period.

				A mass layoff is defined as a workforce reduction at a single employment site that impacts either: (1) at least 33 percent of full-time employees and (2) at least fifty full-time employees or (3) at least 500 employees.



			Notice must be in writing and provided sixty days in advance to employees (mailed to their last known address or enclosed with their paycheck), the employees’ bargaining unit, the state dislocated worker unit, and the chief elected official of the governmental body where the plant closing or layoff will occur.

			Older Workers Benefit Protection Act

			In 1990, the US Congress amended the Age Discrimination in Employment Act (ADEA), adding the Older Workers Benefit Protection Act (OWBPA) to clarify the prohibitions against discrimination on the basis of age. The OWBPA is a federal law that requires employers to offer older workers (those who are at least forty years old) benefits that are equal to or, in some cases, cost the employer as much as the benefits it offers to younger workers.

			The OWBPA also sets minimum standards for an employee waiver of the right to sue for age discrimination, designed to ensure that the waiver is knowing and voluntary. Under the Act, employees over forty are entitled to various employee benefits such as severance pay and cannot be pressured into signing legal waivers. It establishes specific requirements for a “knowing and voluntary” release of ADEA claims to guarantee that an employee has every opportunity to make an informed choice whether to sign the waiver. It acts as a safety net to ensure older and vulnerable workers aren’t unfairly laid off from work and don’t experience age discrimination.

			On the SHRM website, there is a severance waiver and general release template for download.

			State Laws Regarding Final Paychecks

			Every state has their own laws regarding when employees should receive their final paychecks. And it’s not always driven by an employee’s final day of work. In the SHRM article, “Tips for Obeying Final Pay Rules,” author Lisa Nagele-Piazza, JD, SHRM-SCP, notes that several factors determine when an employee should receive their final check, including who ended the employment relationship, remote work status, final wages due, and final deductions.

			Many payroll providers have blog posts and charts on their website listing final paycheck laws by state. I quickly found an overview on the Paycor website (www.paycor.com).

			Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act

			The Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act (COBRA) gives employees (and their families) who lose their health benefits the right to choose to continue group health benefits provided by their group health plan. The continuation of health benefits is for limited periods of time and under certain circumstances such as voluntary or involuntary job loss, reduction in the hours worked, transition between jobs, death, divorce, and other life events. Qualified individuals may be required to pay the entire premium for coverage up to 102 percent of the cost to the plan.

			On the SHRM website, there are several resources to assist with the administration of COBRA:

			 				“What You Need to Know About COBRA Continuation Coverage,”

				“An Employer’s Guide to Group Health Continuation Coverage Under COBRA,”

				“How to Administer COBRA,”

				“Checklist: COBRA Administration,” and

				“COBRA: Termination of Coverage Notice.”





Technology and Employee Transitions


			At the beginning of this book, I shared with you an interview with Brian Sommer about ERPs. In this section, I want to share another interview about comprehensive HR systems.

			There’s an old saying, “Those who do not learn history are doomed to repeat it.” It’s one of my favorite aphorisms always attributed (with slightly different words) to Harvard philosophy professor George Santayana in 1905. As an HR professional, I kept hearing the term human capital management (HCM) and wondered exactly what it meant along with its history. Back in 2016, I consulted with Bill Kutik, the best historian of HR technology, to guide me through its evolution. And guess what? Things haven’t changed much since!

			For over thirty years, Kutik has been influencing the HR technology conversation in the United States, and is an industry-leading producer of professional shows—live and online. He’s probably best remembered as founding cochairman and father of the HR Technology® Conference & Exposition back in 1998. Over the years, he started Firing Line with Bill Kutik®, a monthly broadcast-quality video interview program featuring HR thought leaders: practitioners, vendor executives, analysts, and consultants, which is still available on YouTube. He also produced The Bill Kutik Radio Show®, a biweekly podcast with many of his 183 interviews archived on iTunes. He created and moderated 117 industry expert panels on stage and online and wrote nearly 300 columns on technology for Human Resource Executive magazine.

			For this book, I asked Kutik if we could relive our conversation from 2016 and talk about HCM technologies. Thankfully, he said yes.

			Sharlyn Lauby: Bill, let’s start with a couple of definitions. What is HCM? And what is end-to-end HCM?

			Bill Kutik: The progression of acronyms in HR technology, which is what I most like to call it, is fascinating. At first, we had the Human Resource Information Systems (HRIS), referring to the basic traffic-cop and record-keeping software that recorded people being hired and fired, transferred, given raises and promotions and their benefits among one hundred different items. Very compliance oriented.

			Then some marketing-oriented people decided to rename it Human Resource Management System (HRMS). Many old-timers refused to adopt the name, pointing out quite rightly that it was really just an electronic filing cabinet at the time, not really the manager of anything. But the name quickly caught on anyway and is now often called Core HR.

			People started noticing that the applications that hung off the HRMS—recruiting was the first and performance management soon followed—actually did offer strategic value and first called them the Talent Management (TM) suite and finally Human Capital Management (HCM).

			As the night follows the day, HCM eventually was taken up to mean the whole shebang—Core HR and TM—which together comprised an end-to-end HCM solution for years. The broadest possible definition of that is the software that can start with a candidate, who’s not yet applied for a job; handle evaluating, interviewing, selecting and hiring them; extend through the entire employee life cycle to retirement; even handling retirees coming back to the same company to work as a contingent.

			Of course, companies have lots of contingent workers who have never been employees, but that’s still a separate problem with HR often reluctant to take on tracking the entire workforce in a holistic way.

			Lauby: What are the advantages of an end-to-end HCM solution?

			Kutik: For years, HR practitioners have been looking to buy an end-to-end HCM solution: If they are willing to give up some favorite software module they love (say recruiting) and start all over. That’s called rip-and-replace, and companies of all sizes are doing it for new Cloud systems.1

			If they need to stay on a legacy on-premise system—with all the software on their own computers in the office—because of the millions of dollars spent to acquire, implement, customize and maintain it, they may buy the TM Cloud applications from their legacy vendor (with promises of easy integration), from a competitor, or from an independent (all promising it’s so easy.) Not, but always getting better.

			The advantages of a unified system can be just like Microsoft Office, which is used in 90 percent of corporations for a good reason: all the applications look and act the same. They have a common look and feel—User Interface (UI)—and you can use common navigation techniques—User Experience (UX). You can even search, ask queries and run reports much the same way in every module.

			This ease of use actually leads to employees using the software, which is the biggest problem companies face after implementing new end-to-end HCM systems: user adoption.

			Lauby: Are there any disadvantages? Is it possible that businesses can get stuck with a legacy system and not be willing to change because of the investment they’ve made?

			Kutik: I can’t think of any disadvantages, except the ones I’ll talk about shortly. I believe many large corporations will stick with their on-premise legacy systems because both of the enormous investment, but more importantly, they’ve been customized to work exactly as the company wants the software to work. Even when the old processes [the legacy system] it enables may now be witless and “paving the cow paths,” as Bostonians proudly describe their tangled city streets.2

			IBM still runs payroll on a mainframe Tesseract system purchased in 1986 because it still works, which is not witless. Now they’ve written so much code over it, that not even company founder Gary Durbin would recognize it. But it is thirty years old, though some say IBM is finally planning to replace it.

			Though cloud software has become more and more flexible—and even extensible—to accommodate a company’s idiosyncratic processes, it may never reach the level of on-prem software where you could write new code to make it work differently. But there can be so many things companies can’t do with their on-prem software that cloud may overcome that reason eventually. Cloud is the next generation of computing: just like mainframe, client/server, and web-based applications before it.

			Lauby: On the flip side, there are many systems that don’t fall into the category of an end-to-end HCM solution. Generally speaking, what are the advantages of non “end-to-end” solutions?

			Kutik: The software industry term for those are point solutions, and their primary advantage is they may be best of breed, which means they are simply better at what they do than a comparable software module in an end-to-end system. There are always trade-offs buying an end-to-end HCM solution, and one of them may be losing a software module that works perfectly for you. There are no useful generalities on this point. Every HR department has to decide for itself.

			A very tech-savvy good friend of mine still uses on her desktop WordPerfect and Eudora as an email client despite sacrificing for fifteen years the benefits of meeting invitations sent to others for their acceptance then being automatically entered into an integrated Word calendar. Because she loves what she has.

			Lauby: Tech security is a priority for organizations. Are cloud HCM solutions secure?

			Kutik: Most of the data breaches you read about occur on on-premise systems. The reason is simple. Very few individual corporations (save the sixteen agencies comprising the US intelligence community) can afford to invest in security the way Amazon Web Services does—serving hundreds of cloud vendors—or even giant companies like Oracle and SAP maintaining their own data centers around the world.

			A recent guest on my video series faced security fears moving his company from a mainframe system to a cloud system. He brought all the stakeholders into a room and asked, “What data elements are we already tossing over the wall to third-party insurance providers, 401(k) providers, Flexible Spending Account (FSA) managers, COBRA administrators, and so on?”

			As they ticked them off (including social security numbers, of course), they soon pretty much had everything needed for complete identity theft and realized that the cloud did not increase their risk profile one little bit.

			Lauby: With technology changing so quickly, how can an organization stay on top of what’s happening in the HCM market?

			Kutik: Many people have full-time jobs keeping up with the HCM market, and they can barely cope. An HR executive or practitioner with a day job doesn’t really have a prayer. However, they can catch up on what’s happening in the HCM market by attending events such as my former conference, but you know I’m prejudiced. There are other conferences to attend and dozens of blogs and even free research reports from very skilled analysts available online. But despair of staying on top if you have another job!

			A huge thanks to Kutik for sharing his expertise with us. If you want to tap into more of his knowledge, check out all the archives mentioned at the top.

			Technology decisions are more complex than ever. Yes, functionality, user experience, and cost are important considerations. But as Kutik points out, organizations have to think about long-term solutions, system maintenance, and data security.

			Payroll Software

			When employees start their careers with a company, they want to know how and when they’re going to get paid. And when employees are wrapping up their time with a company, they also want to know how and when they’re going to get paid.

			I’ve been responsible for payroll a couple times during my HR career. It can make a lot of sense. HR and payroll work very closely together. And when employees have an issue with their paycheck, they often go to HR. That’s why I want to include something about payroll technology in this book, because no one wants to have an issue with their pay.

			Employees rely on it. According to data from The Washington Post, somewhere between 50 and 78 percent of employees live paycheck to paycheck. One little mistake can be a big deal. When employees spend time worrying about paying bills, this isn’t good for their well-being and work performance.

			In addition, manual checks are costly. NACHA, a trade association of electronic payment vendors, indicated that it costs a business up to $2 to cut and process a hard-copy check. Now, I’ll admit the $2 number is a bit dated (2011), but I’m hoping we can agree that this cost has only increased over time. And while $2 might seem insignificant, we also know those costs can quickly add up. The bottom line is that everyone wants the same thing, and that’s for payroll to be right every time.

			The person who should know how much they’re supposed to be paid is the employee. They know how many hours they worked. They know if they’ve taken time off. They know how much their deductions should be. And they’re in the best position to let the organization know if corrections should be made. So maybe it’s time to give employees the tools to do their payroll before it runs?

			One company that’s doing just that is Paycom. They recently launched Beti, an employee-driven payroll experience. Beti allows employees to complete payroll-related tasks, including viewing their preliminary paycheck details, acting on any payroll-related tasks, asking any relevant questions, and approving their paychecks before payroll runs. Bringing employees into the payroll process means questions can be resolved early, so fewer mistakes are made and fewer manual checks are cut.

			Please note: Beti does not allow employees to change their pay rate. Nor can they add hours they didn’t work. That’s not what we’re talking about.

			Before payroll is processed, employees receive a real-time push notification to view, act on, and then approve their paycheck details via a mobile app. The check detail points out when there are changes—like a first-time benefits change. Beti would remind the employee when that change is going to show up on their paycheck. The check detail also provides a status on pending expense reimbursements and bonuses.

			If an employee has a question, they can reach out to the appropriate person (probably their manager) for clarification and correction.

			Business and HR leaders have been talking for quite some time about digital transformation and how employees play a key role in owning their data. For example, having employees enter their own address changes reduces data-entry mistakes and can save the company money (an average of $4.51 per data entry). It also frees the HR department’s time so they can do more strategic things. As more organizations are thinking about their future, now could be the perfect time to start thinking about transforming payroll into a more strategic function.

			Using Onboarding Technology for Offboarding

			In Chapter 3, we talk about onboarding technology and the importance of good onboarding. I want to bring up onboarding technology again because it can be used for offboarding.

			Onboarding solutions can be used in offboarding activities such as collecting employee badges, keys, and equipment. It can also be used to disable employee access to company networks. Exit interviews can be initiated from onboarding technology as well as outplacement services.

			Depending on the configuration of your onboarding technology, you might also be able to create FAQs about employee benefits like 401(k) rollovers, COBRA, and final paychecks.

			In addition, because an increasing number of organizations are relying on freelancers, contractors, and consultants, it’s possible your onboarding solution could be used to transition contingent workers when they’re done with their engagement, even if they’re not on the payroll.

			Your onboarding solution doesn’t have to be a unitasker.3 If you’re not familiar with the term, unitaskers are items that can only do one thing and don’t offer versatility and, therefore, don’t bring much value. The message for HR is your onboarding technology is not and should not be considered a unitasker.





Best Practices in Employee Transitions


			Because employee transitions can be tricky, it’s important to stay current on where the potential risks are. I’ve mentioned several times in this chapter—and I will say it again—if you have challenges or questions, it’s time to pick up the phone and call your labor attorney.

			But sometimes when we’re chatting with our legal counsel, the value is in knowing what questions to ask. That comes from getting outside of our work zones and listening to different voices. Here’s a list of HR blogs that focus on employee relations and legal situations. You might find it interesting to hear what others in the HR space are thinking:

			 				Ask a Manager (www.askamanager.org) is written by Alison Green, former chief of staff for a successful nonprofit organization. The blog fields real questions from real people about bad bosses, pesky coworkers, and overall workplace issues. She also has a book out by the same name.

				The Employer Handbook (www.theemployerhandbook.com) is written by attorney Eric B. Meyer who describes himself as “a nerdy employment lawyer.” The blog is focused on employment court cases.

				Evil HR Lady (www.evilhrlady.org) is written by Suzanne Lucas, an HR manager turned consultant. The blog has been around for over thirteen years and covers a wide variety of topics including performance-improvement plans, company smoking policies, and more. If you haven’t already seen it, check out my interview with Lucas about relocations and trailing spouses in the previous chapter.

				I’ve mentioned the law firm of Foley & Lardner LLP a couple of times in this book. They have a blog called Labor & Employment Law Perspectives that keeps readers up to date on the latest issues. You can sign up for it via https://www.foley.com/en/insights/blogs/labor-employment-law-perspectives.





Measuring the Effectiveness of Employee Transitions


			While we’ve talked about the turnover metric, it might make some sense to do a deeper dive into the details. One of the first things that organizations need to decide in their calculation is what type of turnover they want to include in their reporting.

			Voluntary versus Involuntary Turnover

			Voluntary turnover occurs when employees willingly choose to leave their positions. As we know, employees choose to vacate their jobs for a variety of reasons. They may feel dissatisfied with their position or their compensation, they may be seeking a career change, or they may have accepted another offer.

			Involuntary turnover usually involves a company-initiated termination. It could be a RIF or employees being let go for unsatisfactory performance. Regardless, turnover can be very expensive for an organization because of the costs associated with terminating, recruiting, and training a new employee.

			Because involuntary turnover is initiated by the company, there is a school of thought that turnover shouldn’t include it, but this is really an organizational decision that you will want to discuss with your management team.

			Turnover Rate

			Now that the organization has reached agreement on what type of turnover it wants to track, it’s time to calculate it. Turnover rate is calculated by taking the number of separations during a month divided by the average number of employees, multiplied by one hundred:

			Turnover Rate = (# of Separations / Avg. # of Employees) × 100

			At first, this formula sounds simple, but deciding which data to include and when can be confusing. For example, another decision the organization needs to make is whether to use full-time equivalent (FTE) or straight head count when determining the number of employees and separations. What about temporary workers? What if an employee is on a leave or furlough?

			Let’s break down each aspect of the formula.

			Step One: Calculate Number of Employees

			When determining the number of employees in organizations for turnover-rate purposes, employee head count rather than FTE is used. This head count should include all employees on the payroll. Employers should also count direct-hire temporary workers (temporary workers who are on the company payroll) and employees on temporary layoff, leave of absence, or furlough. Number of employees should not include independent contractors or temporary workers on an agency’s payroll.

			Your HRIS or payroll system should be set up to report total employee head count as explained previously, and employers should run this report at regular intervals within the month (weekly or at the beginning, middle, and end of each month). The employee head count can vary depending on the day or week, so the more data points used, the more accurate the turnover calculation will be.

			Step Two: Calculate Average Number of Employees

			The next step is to add the total head count from each report run throughout the month together, and then to divide by the number of reports used to obtain the average number of employees on payroll that month.

			Avg. # of Employees = SUM Head Count from Each Report /

Number of Reports Used

			Example: Company A runs head-count reports three times a month at the beginning, middle and end of each month. Head count on January 1 is 143 employees. Head count on January 15 is 148 employees. Head count on January 30 is 151 employees. Using the formula, Company A would add the three head count totals (143, 148, and 151) together and then divide this sum by number of reports (3).

			(143 + 148 + 151) / 3 = 147.333

			Company A’s average number of employees in January is 147.333.

			Step Three: Calculate Number of Separations

			The next step is to obtain a list of the individuals with termination dates within the month. Some organizations include both voluntary and involuntary terminations, but employees who are temporarily laid off, on furloughs, or on a leave of absence are typically not included. Again, the company’s HRIS or payroll system should easily generate an employee list by termination date.

			Example: In January, Company A had two employees on Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA) leave. They let go of five agency temporary workers, had one employee who retired, terminated two employees for cause, and placed one employee on unpaid furlough.

			Only three employees will be included in the number of separations for the month: the one employee who retired and the two employees terminated for cause.

			Step Four: Divide the Number of Separations by Average Number of Employees

			The next step is to divide the number of separations in the month (determined in Step Three) by the average number of employees on the payroll in the month (determined in Step Two).

			# of Separations / Avg. # of Employees

			Example: Company A had three separations and an average of 147.333 employees on the payroll for the month. Using the formula,

			3 / 147.33 = 0.0204

			Step Five: Calculate the Turnover Rate

			Most organizations report turnover rates as a percentage; therefore, HR would multiply the answer in Step Four by one hundred to arrive at the monthly turnover rate.

			0.0204 × 100 = 2.04%

			Example: Company A has a January turnover rate of 2.04 percent.

			Step Six: Annual Turnover Rate

			Many organizations want to see both a monthly turnover rate (TR) and a year-to-date (YTD) rate. To calculate YTD turnover rate, HR can add the monthly turnover rates together. For instance, if it is April and the employer just completed calculating the monthly turnover rate for March, the formula for the YTD turnover rate would be

			YTD Turnover Rate = January TR + February TR + March TR

			The annual turnover rate is determined by adding all twelve monthly turnover rates for the entire year:

			Annual TR = January TR + February TR +

March TR + April TR + . . . + December TR

			If you don’t want to do this calculation manually (and I don’t blame you), SHRM has a turnover calculation spreadsheet that may be helpful. This spreadsheet allows organizations to enter the average number of employees and number of separations and will automatically calculate monthly, quarterly, and annual turnover rates.

			Turnover Cost

			Once the organization has turnover rate, the next question becomes “What is turnover costing us?” Turnover cost is a similar calculation to cost per hire. It’s basically all the expenses associated with an employee leaving the company divided by the number of departures. However, the big thing to keep in mind is that turnover cost includes cost per hire because, when someone leaves the company, there are costs to hiring their replacement.

			Other expenses that are included in turnover cost include the following:

			 				Separation costs such as legal fees, going away parties, unemployment benefits, COBRA administration, and exit interviews.

				Vacancy costs including productivity loss, overtime to cover workloads, and possibly temporary staffing.

				Replacement costs which include cost-per-hire expenses, onboarding, and on-the-job training.



			Again, manual calculations for turnover cost can get cumbersome, but don’t worry. There’s a turnover cost spreadsheet available for download on the SHRM website.

			Internal Mobility Rates

			In addition to understanding turnover, organizations might want to understand their internal mobility, which refers to your employees’ movement throughout the organization. It includes promotions, transfers, laterals, and demotions.

			Internal Mobility Rate = (Total Number of Internal / Total Number of Employees Movements) × 100

			Organizations that don’t have a lot of turnover might wonder why they do a lot of hiring. Internal mobility could be the reason. Here’s an example: Let’s say that Company A has 2,500 employees. Over the past year, there have been one hundred promotions, transfers, laterals, and demotions. The company’s internal mobility rate would be 4 percent [(100 / 2500) × 100]. What does this number tell us? Well, if the organization’s turnover rate is 5 percent, it might tell us that the majority of our open positions are being filled with internal candidates and we’re spending our recruiting time backfilling those roles. On the other hand, if our turnover rate is 20 percent, the organization might want to ask itself if it is losing good employees because there isn’t enough internal mobility.

			Organizations can also look at their internal mobility rates by diverse groups to evaluate how inclusive their internal hiring processes are.





Additional Resources Related to Employee Transitions


			In addition to the blogs mentioned earlier, here are a couple of books that directly relate to aspects of employee transitions regardless of the type of transition involved.

			Galpin, Timothy J. and Mark Herndon. The Complete Guide to Mergers & Acquisitions: Process Tools to Support M & A Integration at Every Level, 3rd ed. San Francisco: Jossey-Bass, 2014.

			We didn’t spend a lot of time talking about mergers and acquisitions (M&A) in this book, but that doesn’t mean they aren’t happening in record numbers. M&A activity can involve employee transitions of every kind. Even if you’re not currently in an M&A situation, it’s a great book to keep on your bookshelf.

			Atwood, Christee Gabour. Knowledge Management Basics. Alexandria, VA: ASTD Press, 2009.

			This book is a quick read (about one hundred pages) of practical information to design and implement a knowledge management system. One of the things I like about this book is that it walks through some of the questions I believe everyone has when it comes to developing a system like “Do I need to hire a consultant?” and “What if I don’t have the technology to do this?”





Transitioning Employees Reflect Your Organization


			People are asked about their careers all the time. When they get asked, the response can be focused on the challenging work, the learning environment, and the collaborative team environment or it can be a curt “It was fine.” We all know what the latter means.

			The way a person views their past employee experience has an impact on other things. Former employees can refer candidates and customers. If an individual has a poor employee experience, I believe they will hesitate to tell their friends to apply for work with the company. It’s like customer referrals. I don’t tell my friends to eat at restaurants where I’ve had a bad meal. Why would I tell one of my friends to apply someplace where I’ve been treated poorly?

			Surveys show that a poor customer experience has an impact on the business. It seems logical that a poor employee experience will do the same thing.

			I don’t know that this is a new concept. Former employees have always had the ability to talk about their past employers and refer others, but I do believe the emphasis on the value of the relationship is changing. In the past, maybe organizations didn’t focus on it as much. But now, with the challenges employers have in finding qualified candidates, it’s time to realize the relationship cannot be ignored. In fact, it’s quite the contrary.

			Organizations need to realize that the employee-employer relationship lasts well beyond the time that the employee works for the company. They need to think about it and strategize about it in ways like the candidate experience. The employee experience is important and has an impact on the bottom line not only when the employee is working for the company, but for years after.

			And I do believe that’s a perfect message to end our conversation about talent management on. Join me in our final chapter for a quick recap.



* * *



			 				 					1	In 2022, we might see that rip-and-replace idea shift back to include keeping that favorite recruiting module.



				 					2	Kutik tells me this will be true in 2022.



				 					3	I’m a fan of the Peabody Award–winning television show Good Eats, and host Alton Brown is famous for lambasting culinary unitaskers in the kitchen. An example would be a corn kernel remover.





OceanofPDF.com





Conclusion


			Thank you so much for being a part of this talent management journey, and I mean it when I say that it’s a journey. As I mentioned in the introduction, this book is a resource, one of many I hope you will use throughout your career. While it might be great to have one go-to book on talent management, that would be one preposterously large book—one we might never pick up because it looks so intimidating.

			Instead, I hope this book sparks your curiosity about talent management and encourages you to seek out new resources to complement what you already know. Books, blogs, e-newsletters, podcasts, and colleagues are additional resources that can help you expand your knowledge. I hope that during our time together, I’ve introduced you to some new voices in the talent management space and you’ll continue to look for more.

			Talent management isn’t simply one aspect of human resources. It covers the entire employee life cycle from before someone applies to after an employee leaves. Now that we’ve walked through the eight components of talent management, let’s close by focusing on a few takeaways:

			 				Talent management isn’t a trend. It’s a discipline. A trend is a general direction something is heading. Just as there are trends in pop culture, everything is subject to trends, including the business world. And that’s fine. Some trends might be helpful. For example, years ago, job sharing was a trend and lots of organizations offered it. Then we had several years where no one talked about it, and now it’s popular again. Think of talent management as a discipline that requires regular reading and learning. HR professionals should plan to be lifelong learners in talent management.

				HR needs to create vertical and horizontal alignment. We regularly hear that HR strategy needs to align with business strategy (vertical alignment)—and it’s true. However, the components of talent management also need to align with each other (horizontal alignment). For example, if what a candidate hears during the talent-acquisition process doesn’t align with what the employee hears during their performance review, then there’s a disconnect. That disconnect might lead to turnover, which doesn’t accomplish the goals of talent management.

				Every component of talent management is equally important. No one chapter of this book is more important than another. For instance, talent acquisition isn’t more important than the employee value proposition. And the EVP isn’t more important than learning and development. The components of talent management work together to attract, develop, and retain those within our workforces. It’s the reason that HR departments need to create both vertical and horizontal alignment.

				Understanding the essentials of talent management can make customization easier and better. I understand that a lot of people don’t like the term “best” practices. Personally, I’m totally cool with it. To me, the goal of learning best practices isn’t to simply copy them. It’s to use them as creative inspiration for what you want to do. Best practices show us what’s possible. Consequently, it’s so important to understand talent management essentials. When we do know the principles, models, theories, definitions, and best practices, then we can use our knowledge to create the right policy, procedure, guidelines, or program that works for our organization.



			As we apply these takeaways to the future, HR professionals should be on the lookout for talent management trends that can impact their organizations. I wish I knew exactly what all those trends will be, but there are a few dynamics that I will be closely watching:

			 				The business world continues to be numbers driven. Talent management will be as well. Metrics and analytics are not going away. HR departments need to learn and fully embrace how data and numbers drive the talent side of the business.

				Technology doesn’t replace the human experience. When it’s done well, it can improve it. Organizations and individuals must figure out how to work and live in a high-tech world, because technology is going to remain a part of our lives.

				Our personal and professional lives are becoming very blended, whether we like it or not. We used to have clear boundaries between our home and work lives. That’s changing. I don’t have all the answers on this, but it’s definitely going to drive the employee value proposition.

				Managers play a key role in talent management. They always have and always will. While HR is involved with talent management, they’re not alone. Operational managers are involved in hiring, engagement, training, performance, and transitions. They need to be given the tools to be successful.



			Some of you might say that my “talent-management trend watch list” isn’t very edgy, and that’s okay. While the items on my watch list may be very predictable, that doesn’t mean they’re easy. If HR departments just focused on these four things, they would have their plates full. Building a solid foundation in talent management is hard and there’s nothing wrong with focusing on it. In fact, HR departments that make it a priority to build a good foundation are well prepared when the unexpected does happen. Why? Because their foundation can handle it.

			Before we bring our time together to a close, there’s one last thing I’d like to share and that’s about how to find good information. We talked a little bit about this in Chapter 6 (Learning and Development) with the concept of curation. Being able to cut through all the noise, fake news, misinformation, and disinformation (whatever you want to call it) to find valid content is both and art and science. A while ago, I took a YouTube program called CrashCourse Media Literacy. It’s a twelve-episode series on how to consume and evaluate the media.

			I found the episodes to be educational, informative, and sometimes funny. No single episode was longer than ten minutes, so I’d like to think that everyone can find ten minutes a day to learn more about finding good information. The program does a good job of defining what media is, what happens with our data on media sites, and the business of media. I’m certainly not anti-media or anti-marketing but I did find it enlightening to understand how other companies use my information when I’m out searching the internet for answers.

			If you like the CrashCourse program on media literacy, they have a second one on navigating digital information. This one is focused on how to evaluate whether the information we’re reading is legitimate. The course offers three questions to consider when consuming digital information, the idea being that we should ask ourselves these three questions to determine if we’re comfortable with the quality of the information before we share it via our social channels or in business reports:

			 				Who is sharing this information? This course introduced to me a concept called lateral reading. To learn more about a website or author, leave their website. Find out the author’s professional experience, educational background, and the process they used to present information. Did they go to an event? Read a book? Talk to experts? By reading laterally to other websites, we can learn more about the person and their credentials.

				Why are they sharing it? Regular readers of my blog, HR Bartender, know that I often use the dictionary to help me solve my information gaps. This course reminded me that there’s a difference between skepticism and cynicism. Skepticism is to doubt the truth of something. Cynicism is an inclination that people are motivated purely by self-interest. It’s okay to be skeptical and look to understand why someone is sharing information. Are they being transparent about it? That might lead to some cynicism.

				What do others say about the information? When we read information, it’s important to understand if it’s fact or opinion. And are there any sources of evidence? We also want to remember that not all evidence is created equal, but the absence of evidence could be suspicious. Oh, and when we refer to evidence, keep in mind that all evidence might not be data. Images could be a powerful form of evidence.



			As I thought about these three questions and the course in general, the big takeaway for me was that navigating digital information well involves constantly being in touch with our biases. When we read things that seem too good to be true, then maybe we need to take a few extra steps to confirm the information. Or, when our favorite news source says something, double-check with another source before sharing. It doesn’t take a lot of time to reconfirm, and if no one else is talking about it, maybe we need to wait a while before sharing because maybe, just maybe, it’s not correct.

			I’d like to think that I don’t need to explain why being able to navigate digital information is so important. Consuming correct, valuable, relevant information is essential to our personal and professional lives. It’s one of the reasons why I wanted to write this book. Our organizations rely on us to give them good information. They expect us to confidently consult with them in all aspects of talent management. That doesn’t mean we need to have all the answers memorized. It does mean we need to know how to find the answers.

			I hope this book helps you find the answers you’re looking for.

			Cheers!





OceanofPDF.com





Appendix: Creating a Talent-Management Library


			In this book, I’ve mentioned several other books that you might want to add to your talent-management resource library. As I was writing, it occurred to me that it would be convenient to have them listed in one place, so here they are in alphabetical order. I also included a checkbox next to each title in case you want to flag the ones you have and the ones to put on your wish list.

			 				Falcone, Paul. 2600 Phrases for Effective Performance Reviews: Ready-to-Use Words and Phrases That Really Get Results. New York: AMACOM, 2005.

				Schawbel, Dan. Back to Human: How Great Leaders Create Connection in the Age of Isolation. New York: Hachette, 2018.

				Capron, Laurence, and Will Mitchell. Build, Borrow, or Buy: Solving the Growth Dilemma. Boston: Harvard Business School Publishing, 2012.

				Ellig, Bruce R. The Complete Guide to Executive Compensation, 4th ed. New York: McGraw Hill, 2022.

				Galpin, Timothy J., and Mark Herndon. The Complete Guide to Mergers & Acquisitions: Process Tools to Support M&A Integration at Every Level, 3rd ed. San Francisco: Jossey-Bass, 2014.

				Mosley, Eric. The Crowdsourced Performance Review: How to Use the Power of Social Recognition to Transform Employee Performance. New York: McGraw-Hill, 2013.

				Cohen, Deb. Developing Management Proficiency: A Self-Directed Learning Approach. New York: Routledge, 2020.

				Cohen, Debra J. Developing Proficiency in HR: 7 Self-Directed Activities for HR Professionals. Alexandria, VA: Society for Human Resource Management, 2016.

				Pink, Daniel H. Drive: The Surprising Truth about What Motivates Us. New York: Riverhead Books, 2009.

				Rothwell, William J. Effective Succession Planning: Ensuring Leadership Continuity and Building Talent from Within. New York: AMACOM, 2016.

				Carasco, Marie, and William J. Rothwell. The Essential HR Guide for Small Businesses and Startups: Best Practices, Tools, Examples, and Online Resources. Alexandria, VA: Society for Human Resource Management, 2020.

				Bossidy, Larry, Ram Charan, and Charles Burck. Execution: The Discipline of Getting Things Done. New York: Crown Business, 2002.

				Bogue, Terri, and Robert Bogue. Extinguish Burnout: A Practical Guide to Prevention and Recovery. Alexandria, VA: Society for Human Resource Management, 2019.

				Senge, Peter M. The Fifth Discipline: The Art and Practice of the Learning Organization. New York: Doubleday, 2009.

				Arthur, Diane. The First-Time Manager’s Guide to Performance Appraisals. New York: AMACOM, 2008.

				Block, Peter, and Janis Nowlan. Flawless Consulting: A Guide to Getting Your Expertise Used, 3rd ed. San Francisco: Jossey-Bass, 2015.

				Bush, Michael C. A Great Place to Work for All: Better for Business, Better for People, Better for the World. Oakland, CA: Berrett-Koehler Publishers, 2018.

				Fitz-enz, Jac, and Barbara Davidson. How to Measure Human Resources Management. New York: McGraw-Hill, 2002.

				Levit, Alexandra. Humanity Works: Merging Technologies and People for the Workforce of the Future. New York: Kogan Page, 2019.

				Abrashoff, D. Michael. It’s Your Ship: Management Techniques from the Best Damn Ship in the Navy. New York: Grand Central Publishing, 2007.

				Atwood, Christee Gabour. Knowledge Management Basics. Alexandria, VA: ASTD Press, 2009.

				Posner, Barry Z., and James M. Kouzes. The Leadership Challenge: How to Make Extraordinary Things Happen in Organizations, 6th ed. Hoboken, NJ: Wiley, 2017.

				Mosley, Eric, and Derek Irvine. Making Work Human: How Human-Centered Companies are Changing the Future of Work and the World. New York: McGraw-Hill, 2021.

				Lauby, Sharlyn. Manager Onboarding: 5 Steps for Setting New Leaders Up for Success. Alexandria, VA: Society for Human Resource Management, 2016.

				Hartman, Phyllis G. A Manager’s Guide to Developing Competencies in HR Staff: Tips and Tools for Improving Proficiency in Your Reports. Alexandria, VA: Society for Human Resource Management, 2018.

				Emelo, Randy. Modern Mentoring. Alexandria, VA: ATD Press, 2015.

				Lee, Christopher D. Performance Conversations: How to Use Questions to Coach Employees, Improve Productivity, and Boost Confidence (Without Appraisals!). Alexandria, VA: Society for Human Resource Management, 2021.

				Heath, Chip, and Dan Heath. The Power of Moments: Why Certain Experiences Have Extraordinary Impact. London: Bantam Press, 2017.

				Waters, Shonna D., Valerie N. Streets, Lindsay McFarlane, and Rachael Johnson-Murray. The Practical Guide to HR Analytics: Using Data to Inform, Transform, and Empower HR Decisions. Alexandria, VA: Society for Human Resource Management, 2018.

				Fitz-enz, Jac, and John R. Mattox II. Predictive Analytics for Human Resources. Hoboken, NJ: Wiley, 2014.

				Schmidt, Warren H., and Jerome P. Finnigan. The Race without a Finish Line: America’s Quest for Total Quality. San Francisco: Wiley, 1992.

				Lauby, Sharlyn. The Recruiter’s Handbook: A Complete Guide for Sourcing, Selecting, and Engaging the Best Talent. Alexandria, VA: Society for Human Resource Management, 2018.

				Bozarth, Jane. Show Your Work: The Payoffs and How-To’s of Working Out Loud. San Francisco: Wiley, 2014.

				Fleischer, Charles H. The SHRM Essential Guide to Employment Law: A Handbook for HR Professionals, Managers, Businesses, and Organizations. Alexandria, VA: Society for Human Resource Management, 2018.

				Stein, Mark A., and Lilith Christiansen. Successful Onboarding: A Strategy to Unlock Hidden Value Within Your Organization. New York: McGraw-Hill, 2010.

				Sackett, Tim. The Talent Fix: A Leader’s Guide to Recruiting Great Talent. Alexandria, VA: Society for Human Resource Management, 2018.

				Ain, Aron J. WorkInspired: How to Build an Organization Where Everyone Loves to Work. New York: McGraw-Hill Education, 2019.





OceanofPDF.com





Glossary


			A

			abilities. Defined as the qualities of being able to do something, there is a fine line between skills and abilities. Most people would say the differentiator is whether the thing in question was learned or innate. For instance, I think of organization and prioritization as abilities that can help an employee develop their instructional design skills.

			applicants and candidates. It’s important to draw a distinction here because it could impact how you define your candidate experience. Applicants are the people who apply for jobs. Candidates are the ones who get interviewed. All candidates are applicants. But not all applicants are candidates.

			apprenticeships and internships. Both apprenticeships and internships are programs that can help individuals with career planning and development. An apprenticeship is a work-based training program. Organizations that offer apprenticeship programs can recruit and develop high-quality employees and sometimes receive a tax credit for doing so. An internship is a work-based experience program. It’s an opportunity to see how the theories and models students have learned in school apply in a real-life work setting. And the organization can see what a potential employee can do. Examples of intern jobs include marketing, accounting, analysis, animal care, and so on.

			assimilation. In the context of business, assimilation often refers to educating an employee on organizational culture and how employees interact with each other. Organizations should be aware that some efforts to assimilate employees can be detrimental to employees because they could be viewed as asking an employee to cover up who they are.

			B

			belonging. In an article on the SHRM blog, author Steven Huang defines belonging as “the feeling of security and support when there is a sense of acceptance, inclusion, and identity for a member of a certain group or place. Diversity, inclusion, equity, and belonging are all interrelated. Huang’s article mentions that belonging is a strong driver of employee engagement.

			benefits. Employee benefits are nonfinancial compensation provided to an employee as part of their employee value proposition. Benefits could be required by law, associated with the job or industry, or provided voluntarily by the employer. There are several categories of benefits. Five of the most common are (1) health-related insurances such as medical, dental, vision, disability, and spending accounts; (2) life insurance, including accidental death and dismemberment (AD&D); (3) retirement, including 401(k) and 403(b) plans; (4) well-being benefits such as employee assistance programs (EAP), childcare, and eldercare; and (5) education-related benefits including tuition reimbursement and student loan repayment.

			bias. A bias is defined as “a prejudice in favor of or against someone or something.” Bias is often mentioned in the context of talent acquisition and performance management. While all biases are not negative, biases can have a negative impact on employees because they expect employment related decisions to be fair and free of biases.

			boomerang employees. These are individuals who used to work for the organization and have come back. In some places, they might be called rehires. Former employees can be great future employees. Organizations need to consider them in their recruiting strategy.

			broadbanding. This is the practice of having fewer but larger salary ranges. Broadbanding as a compensation strategy places greater emphasis on employee development versus promotion, since employees will stay in a salary range (i.e., band) for a longer period.

			C

			candidate persona. Marketing departments often create customer personas. They are archetypes that represent the ideal customer based on research and data that the organization has gathered. In recruitment, a candidate persona is an archetype that represents the ideal candidate based on information from the intake interview. It does not contain any descriptors that are discriminatory or stereotypical.

			career planning. Composed of two components—career development and career management—career development refers to the stages that an individual goes through during their career: exploration, establishment, midcareer, late career, and decline. Career development is often employee driven. It’s what the employee wants to do with their career. Career management is what the organization does in terms of selecting, coaching, training, and so on. It’s more company driven. Ideally, career planning is the bringing together of these two components—what employees want in terms of their career and what the organization is prepared to do in terms of development.

			coaching. Managers are responsible for coaching employees to achieve the best performance possible. The process they use is traditionally focused on listening, questioning and process development often during feedback sessions. When done well, coaching feedback reinforces positive behaviors and corrects not-so-positive ones.

			code of conduct. An ethics standard is often contained within a code of conduct. Organizations have a code of conduct to basically outline the work rules that all employees will agree to. Typical inclusions in a code of conduct deal with theft, destruction, working under the influence, possession of illegal drugs, disclosure of confidential information, and so on. SHRM has sample codes of conduct on their website as well as a code of conduct for professional members.

			cost-of-living adjustment (COLA). This is an increase in wages provided to an employee to bring their pay in line with the cost of living to maintain purchasing power in a particular location.

			compensation. There are two forms of compensation. The first is direct compensation, which refers to the wages paid by an employer to the employee in exchange for their work. Wages are fixed regular payments, typically paid on a daily or weekly basis. For example, Joe is making a wage of $20/hour. The second type of compensation is variable pay. It is typically in the form of short- and long-term incentives like bonuses, commissions, and stock awards.

			competency. This is a set of skills necessary to be successful. Competencies can be technical or behavioral. An excellent example of a competency would be the SHRM BASK.

			corporate social responsibility (CSR). In this business model, organizations include social and environmental concerns in their operations. CSR allows the organization to achieve a balance of economic, environmental, and social results (sometimes it’s referred to as the “triple bottom line” or TBL).

			covering. The first time I heard the word covering was in a presentation from learning and development expert Josh Bersin about diversity and inclusion. Covering happens when employees feel they need to downplay or “cover” who they are to have others accept them. Sometimes, it’s associated with taking assimilation too far.

			D

			demotion. This occurs when an employee changes their position to one that has a lower salary range. It can happen at the request of the company or the employee. On the SHRM website, there are a couple of articles that could be helpful when managing an employee demotion: “How Should We Handle Employee Demotions?” and “How to Manage an Employee Who’s Been Demoted.”

			diversity. SHRM defines diversity as “the collective mixture of differences and similarities that includes, for example, individual and organizational characteristics, values, beliefs, experiences, backgrounds, preferences, and behaviors.” Diversity is considered to be a key driver of employee engagement.

			E

			emotional intelligence (EI). This is the ability to perceive, use, understand, manage, and handle emotions. There are several models of emotional intelligence, and some will refer to it as emotional quotient (EQ). It’s often portrayed as having four domains: self-awareness, self-management, social awareness, and relationship management. Self-awareness is about being aware of our own moods and thoughts. Self-management is defined as the ability to manage our own actions and thoughts. Social awareness is the ability to accurately notice the emotions of others (as in being able to “read the room”). Finally, relationship management is the ability to successfully manage social interactions taking our emotions and the emotions of others in proper context.

			employee engagement. SHRM defines employee engagement as the level of an employee’s commitment and connection to the organization. Engagement is considered a key driver of business success. The better employee engagement, the better organizations are at retaining talent, maintaining customer loyalty, and improving financial performance.

			empowerment and delegation. These two actions are focused on the authority to do something. When a manager or supervisor empowers an employee, they are giving the employee the authority to act in their absence. Delegation happens when a manager assigns (or delegates) a task to the employee.

			environmental scan. This is a review of external data and information that could potentially impact the business. Traditional areas of review include economics, social and demographic factors, legal and governmental actions, technology, and competition.

			equity. Equality and equity are two different things. Equality is focused on giving everyone the same thing. SHRM defines equity as identifying and working to eliminate barriers to fair treatment. Equity is about making sure that systems are in place to provide “fair treatment in access, opportunity, and advancement for all.”

			ethics. A common definition for ethics is “the moral principles that govern a person’s behavior.” Most organizations have an ethical standard that they abide by. All employee performance should be ethical.

			expatriates. US companies have historically defined expatriates as employees who are asked to work outside their home countries for a period of time with the intent of eventually returning to their home countries. Expatriates who are from the country where the company is headquartered are referred to as headquarters expatriates. An expatriate may also be referred to as a parent-country national.

			F

			feedback. The dictionary says feedback is information about a product, service, or a person’s performance. Some more recent definitions might include the phrase “which is used as a basis for improvement.” Feedback is information. A manager could provide an employee feedback about their performance by saying, “Your answer to the client about our current shipping dates was perfect. Thanks for stepping in.” No suggestions for improvement. Instead, a confirmation to keep doing what you’re doing. Feedback is an essential part of performance management. Employees need feedback.

			G

			geofencing. This is the use of global positioning system (GPS) technology to create a virtual geographic boundary (i.e., a “fence”) that enables a mobile device to trigger a response when it enters or leaves the area. Ever wonder how your laptop knows when you’ve arrived in a new city because all the restaurant ads are local? That’s geofencing. And companies can do it not only for customer marketing but for recruitment.

			globalization. With the expansion of globalization, more organizations are developing talent strategies that factor in the movement of work to other countries. Outsourcing is a practice where portions of the work are transferred to an outside supplier (versus completed internally). Offshoring relocates processes or production to another country. Onshoring (or home-shoring) relocates a business practice to a lower-cost location inside the same country as the organization.

			global mindset. A global mindset is the ability to recognize and adjust to cultural signals so that a person’s effectiveness isn’t compromised when dealing with others from a different background, according to the Global Mindset Index Study created by the cultural training firm RW3. Companies with employees who have a global mindset typically perform better because of that global perspective.

			goal. An observable and measurable end result having one or more objectives to be achieved. Goals are typically broad in scope. For example, a goal might be for an organization to increase profit by 50 percent in the next quarter. Or an individual might have a goal to become a SHRM-certified professional.

			H

			high-performing employees (HiPer). These are individuals with a proven record of exceeding the company performance standards. Organizations might also use the same term in the context of a high-performing team. Some of the traits typically associated with high-performing employees include job quality, self-learning, excellent communication skills, initiative, and good problem-solving and decision-making skills.

			high-potential employees (HiPo). These individuals have the potential and desire to become a high-performing employee. Employees who are identified and told of their status as a HiPo could be more motivated, committed, and engaged in their work. The downside is that the employee might develop incorrect assumptions about their future opportunities. The employee could also place too much pressure on themselves, then develop stress and burnout, which wasn’t the intention.

			I

			inclusion. You might have heard the Verna Myers quote, “Diversity is being invited to the party. Inclusion is being asked to dance.” SHRM describes inclusion as “the extent to which each person in an organization feels welcomed, respected, supported, and valued as a team member.” It requires people from diverse backgrounds to effectively work together.

			inpatriates. These foreign national employees have been transferred to work in the home country of an international organization on a temporary or permanent basis.

			interventions. Sometimes referred to as organizational development (OD) interventions are structured programs designed to solve a problem, thus enabling an organization to achieve a goal. Intervention activities are designed to improve the organization’s functioning and enable managers and leaders to better manage their team and organization cultures. Interventions can be designed at an organizational, departmental, or group and individual level. Common intervention activities might include job redesign, organizational restructuring, team building, coaching, or mentoring.

			J

			job requisition. A requisition is an order. A job requisition is a job order. The reason I’m including this term is because organizations should decide if talent acquisition will be driven by requisitions or, if it makes better business sense, by workforce plans. They are two different things.

			K

			key performance indicators (KPIs). These are quantifiable measurements of performance, according to Investopedia. They usually focus on finances, customers, and process efficiency. Common organizational KPIs include revenue and profit, customer-acquisition costs, customer lifetime value, and product defect ratios.

			knowledge. Sometimes we hear the term knowledge in the context of knowledge, skills, and abilities (KSAs). Knowledge is the theoretical or practical understanding of a subject. For example, an employee might have knowledge of the ADDIE model used in instructional design. This doesn’t mean the employee knows how to be an instructional designer. It means they know the model.

			L

			lateral move. This happens when an employee changes their job but doesn’t change their job level. Lateral moves are sometimes referred to as horizontal or sideways moves. The new job is equal in terms of career level and compensation. Lateral moves are great for providing employees with new work experiences and building new relationships. The downside of a lateral move is that sometimes people might not understand the career strategy behind it and mistakenly think it’s a demotion.

			leadership. The definition of leadership is the ability to influence. Managers (see definition of management) should be leaders, but not all leaders are managers. Leaders exist at every level of the organization—and that’s a good thing.

			leaves. A leave is an absence from work. There are leaves, like those included in the Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA), that are required by law and others that organizations might offer like paid parental leave, paid/unpaid time off for volunteerism, or paid/unpaid sabbaticals.

			learning. This is defined as the knowledge acquired through experience, study, or being taught. Learning is about the attainment of knowledge or skills. It’s about the participant. While an organization can conduct training, that doesn’t always mean learning took place. Learning can happen outside of training. For example, in a mentoring session.

			local nationals. These employees are hired for jobs in their own country. For example, a United Kingdom citizen who is employed at Acme Company’s UK subsidiary is a local national. They might also be known as host-country nationals.

			M

			management. Management is often defined as the activities of planning, organizing, directing, and controlling. Managers plan the work, organize resources, direct employees, and control the results.

			mentoring. Mentors are typically subject matter experts in the topic they are mentoring. Their goal is to help someone achieve a goal that’s been set. Their method involves teaching and development and creating action plans, goals, and accountability. The mentoring process is focused on passing along knowledge and skills.

			mission, vision, values (M-V-V). Often linked together, the M-V-V is a way to describe the organization and its purpose. The organization’s vision is their long-term goal. The mission is how the organization goes about accomplishing their vision. Values are the key behaviors that guide organizational decision-making.

			multirater assessment. Sometimes referred to as a 360 assessment, this is a process where an employee receives anonymous feedback from the people who work around them. It typically includes their manager, peers, and direct reports. Sometimes it will also include customers. A multirater or 360 assessment can be a very useful career-development tool.

			N

			negotiation. This is a discussion focused on reaching an agreement. HR professionals often use negotiations in talent acquisition (i.e., job offers) and labor relations (i.e., collective bargaining agreements).

			networking. As business professionals, we should have a “network” or group of individuals that we can rely on for education and information. The process of building a network is called networking. It’s an activity or series of interactions designed to build trust and respect with professional and social contacts.

			O

			objectives. These are specific results you’re trying to achieve within a time frame and with available resources. They’re considered more specific and easier to measure than a goal. Think of them as the steps you will take to achieve the goal.

			on-the-job training (OJT). This happens when training and learning take place in the workplace versus a classroom or offsite environment. The advantages of OJT are the focus on hands-on activities (i.e., actually doing the skill), immediate feedback, and reduced downtime. OJT can take minutes whereas a classroom session which might take hours. The disadvantages include that OJT might require an onsite trainer with extensive knowledge and there is the potential risk of teaching the wrong thing and creating bad habits.

			organizational culture. Among successful organizations, culture is a common denominator. According to the SHRM toolkit “Understanding and Developing Organizational Culture,” an organization’s culture defines the proper way to behave within the organization. It consists of shared beliefs and values communicated and reinforced by leadership.

			outcomes. The measurement and evaluation of an activity’s results against their intended or projected results are the outcomes. Basically, the outcome is what you hope to achieve when you accomplish the goal.

			P

			paid time off (PTO). This is a personal time off policy that provides employees with a certain number of hours that can be used at an employee’s discretion. PTO is a huge component of the employee value proposition because it can align with leaves, flexible scheduling, well-being programs, and so on.

			performance standards. The behaviors that identify acceptable and unacceptable employee performance. For example, I once worked for a company that said all phone calls should be answered within three rings. If you answered the phone within three rings, then you were meeting the performance standard. If you answered the phone within four or five rings, that was labeled not meeting the standard, and if you consistently answered the phone in one or two rings, that could be considered exceeding the standard. Every job has performance standards.

			perquisites (a.k.a. perks). These are nonfinancial offerings beyond wages and benefits. They are often tied to an employee’s position, as in “perks of the job.” While perks are items that contribute to company culture, they typically aren’t drivers of employee engagement. Examples might include gym memberships, pet insurance, free lunches or snacks, nap rooms, walking clubs, and so on.

			productivity. The definition of productivity is to produce something. The implication with productivity is to produce something efficiently, meaning without a lot of waste, while at the same time, to produce something of value (i.e., in this case, value is something the organization holds in importance.) Productivity isn’t simply producing anything. It’s producing something of value with the fewest resources.

			project management. The Project Management Institute (PMI) defines project management as a temporary endeavor to create a unique product, service, or result. Temporary means that the project has a defined beginning and end with limited resources. Unique means that the project isn’t a routine or everyday activity. The goal of project management is to deliver the intended result on time and within budget.

			promotion. To give an employee a new job that has a higher salary range. It could include an increase in benefits like bonuses. Often, a promotion involves a job title change as well. Promotions might be initiated by the company, or an employee might apply for an open position that would include a promotion. On the SHRM website, you can find templates for a job posting policy (staff promotions) as well as a promotion announcement.

			R

			realistic job preview. A realistic job preview is when organizations provide a glimpse (i.e., a “preview”) of some important aspect of a job to a candidate. The preview could be a video, a simulation, a tour, or an activity like an inbox exercise. The goal of the preview is to provide the candidate with an honest look at the job to help them understand the work environment.

			recognition. Often used in the same sentence with rewards, recognition is usually considered more relational and can happen more in the moment. Think of recognition as the words people use to acknowledge good work. Recognition by itself isn’t expensive; in fact, it can often be free. Many organizations bring recognition and rewards together to verbally thank an employee for doing a good job and then give them a gift of appreciation.

			recruiting process outsourcing (RPO). An RPO is an organization that provides third-party recruiting services. It’s not a staffing agency. An RPO supports the organization by providing a customized recruitment process. Some companies might find having an external partner handling their recruitment to be both effective and efficient.

			recruitment marketing. This is the practice of using traditional marketing techniques (such as the four Ps of product, price, place, and promotion) to promote the company’s employment brand and open jobs identified via job requisition. Effective recruitment marketing strategies should attract qualified candidates to the organization.

			reduction in force (RIF). This is an employer-initiated permanent separation from the company. By contrast, a furlough is considered a forced reduction in hours or leave, during which the employee might still receive benefits, and a layoff is a temporary termination of employment, with the expectation that the employer will bring the employee back at some point but not a guarantee. On the SHRM website, there are several resources to help HR professionals if they are considering a furlough, layoff, or reduction-in-force.

			reliability. Often used in pre-employment assessments, reliability is the concept that the information being used for selection is consistent. Any information used in selection should be valid (measure job-related characteristics) and reliable (in a consistent manner). If a tool is valid, then it is usually reliable. However, if a tool is reliable, that doesn’t automatically mean it’s valid. Just remember that it’s possible to be consistently wrong.

			relocation. One of the ways that employees can gain skills and advance their careers is through special projects or assignments. That could involve relocation to a new city, state, or country. SHRM has a great list of relocation-related resources for organizations including toolkits for managing employee relocations, sample relocation policy and procedures, and a guide to relocation services organizations, including a way to check and compare providers.

			repatriation. This is the process of an employee returning to their home country. Repatriation should be viewed as more than making travel arrangements and moving household goods. According to the International Assignee Research Project, a recent joint study by Berlitz International and the Institute for International Human Resources (IIHR), 77 percent of international transferees received no career counseling from their employers upon their return from abroad and only 6 percent were offered re-entry training.

			replacement planning. A replacement plan identifies “backups” for positions. Traditionally, it focuses on top-level positions, but it can be done for any key position in the organization. Having individuals identified as backups just makes good business sense, for a variety of reasons. As much as we don’t like to mention it, employees can become unexpectedly seriously ill or have an accident and be unable to work. The organization needs to find someone to take over their responsibilities—even temporarily.

			resignation. An employee’s announcement of their decision to leave their job.

			reskilling. This involves learning new skills, but it’s usually for the purpose of transitioning to a new role. It could be for a promotional or lateral opportunity such as an administrative assistant learning how to code or an accounts payable clerk learning payroll. Sometimes it’s presented in the context of development, which takes place when an individual gains new knowledge and skills for the purpose of transitioning into a role of greater responsibility (i.e., management development). Often, when we think of development, it could involve multiple roles over the long term.

			retention. The formula for retention rate is the number of employees that stayed with the company divided by the number of employees you started with. SHRM has an article titled “How Do I Calculate Retention?” in which you can walk through examples. While organizations can calculate employee retention, it’s often viewed as a strategy. Retention answers the question, “How did the organization keep their talent?”

			retirement. Defined by Merriam-Webster as the act of ending your working or professional career. While employees make the decision about when they want to retire, organizations have to think about the implications of their employees retiring. SHRM has partnered with AARP for many years to provide information to make the transition to retirement a better experience—for the employee and employer. You can search both the SHRM and AARP websites for employer resources.

			rewards. BambooHR does a great job of defining employee rewards. Typically, rewards are tangible gifts. They are transactional and tied to goals. Examples of rewards include gift cards, company logo items, and trophies. Reward programs are often designed and implemented to increase employee engagement.

			S

			self-directed learning. This happens when individuals take the initiative, with or without the help of others, to diagnose their learning needs, formulate their learning goals, identify the source for learning, implement the learning plan, and evaluate learning outcomes.

			severance. This is a package offered to employees who are being laid off from their jobs. A severance package typically includes a monetary payment such as X weeks of pay based on the employee’s years of service with the company. It often includes provisions for extended benefits, specifically in health care. Sometimes, it includes outplacement services to help the employee find a new job. Employees being offered severance might be asked to sign a severance agreement to receive the package, waiving all rights to sue the company.

			skills. The proficiencies developed through training or experience. Skills are usually something that has been learned, so, we can develop our skills through the transfer of knowledge.

			social media. Merriam-Webster defines social media as “forms of electronic communication through which users can create online communities and share communications.” Organizations use social media sites is an integral part of their recruitment marketing strategy. Knowing how to create a social media strategy and use social media platforms is not an optional skill for HR professionals.

			stock options. This is basically a way for employees to purchase a certain amount of company stock at a specific price during a specific period. Typically, an option will also have an expiration date. The benefit to employee stock options is that employees can invest in the organization with lesser risk and potentially receive a greater profit. The downside is that the company stock could diminish in value or even become worthless, which doesn’t make the stock option attractive.

			T

			team building. An activity typically focused on role clarification, goal setting, and building interpersonal relationships. Often, team-building activities occur as part of a training session or a retreat. It’s not the same as team development.

			team development. Activities focused on building specific teamwork competencies. It’s focused on developing the knowledge, skills, and abilities needed to be a good team player and work well with others. Examples might include decision-making, collaboration, and consensus building.

			termination. The end of an employee’s work with the company. Termination can be voluntary, meaning the employee initiated it (as in a resignation or retirement) or involuntary, meaning the company initiated it (like a layoff or firing).

			third-country nationals (TCNs). These employees are not from the home country or the host country. TCNs have traditionally been technical or professional employees hired for short-term employment and are often considered as international freelance employees.

			total rewards. SHRM defines a total-rewards strategy is a system implemented by a business that provides monetary, beneficial, and developmental rewards to employees who achieve specific business goals. The strategy combines compensation and benefits with personal growth opportunities inside a motivated work environment.

			training. The act of teaching someone a specific skill or behavior. I like to think of training in the context of an employee’s current job. This differs from development, which is focused on an employee’s future opportunities.

			transfers. When an employee moves from one area of the organization to another. Typically, from one department, division, or location to another. It could also involve a promotion, demotion, or lateral move. Most organizations have a process in place for accepting employee transfer requests. The SHRM website has an “Internal Transfer or Reassignment Request” template you can download and review.

			turnover. Traditionally viewed as a metric where you divide the number of terminations during a time frame by the number of employees during that same time frame. Organizations can decide how they want to calculate that metric. For example, some organizations don’t include involuntary terminations in their turnover calculation because a layoff is the result of an employer decision.

			U

			unretirement. Often used in sports, it’s the action of an individual leaving retirement and returning to employment.

			upskilling. This is the process of acquiring new skills. It’s typically related to the job that the employee currently holds—for example, a programmer learning a new computer software program. It could be used in the context of retraining, which often takes place after a merger, acquisition, or restructuring. An example might be retraining the accounting team on a new procedure for processing expense reports. They already know how to process reports, but they need retraining on the new way.

			V

			validity. This is the concept that the information being used is valid for the selection process. Validity is often used in the context of pre-employment assessments. The assessment should be valid for the job and for recruitment. Validity can also be used when evaluating candidates, meaning that only valid information should be considered.

			W

			workers’ compensation. This is a type of business insurance that helps to cover medical expenses when an employee is injured on the job.

			X

			x-efficiency. First used by Harvey Leibenstein, an economist and Harvard University professor, x-efficiency is the concept that when companies aren’t competitive, their workers don’t work as efficiently or productively. For example, an organization with a large market share might find that employees are less productive because they know they don’t have any competition.

			Y

			yield ratio. A recruiting metric that measures the percentage (i.e., yield) of candidate movement from one step in the hiring process to the next. For example, if the organization receives one hundred applications and seventy-five are screened by HR, the yield is 75 percent.

			Z

			zero-based budget. A method of budgeting where all expenses must be justified and approved for each new budget cycle. Zero-based means the budget starts at zero versus whatever was budgeted in the previous cycle.





OceanofPDF.com





References and Resources




						 						 							Just a reminder to use the QR code for access to a curated page of podcasts, videos, and webinars that combine with this book to give you a variety of content for reading and listening. Our goal is to update the page regularly, so check in for updates!



				 			 			Introduction: Talent Management Defined

			Fleischer, Charles H. The SHRM Essential Guide to Employment Law: A Handbook for HR Professionals, Managers, Businesses, and Organizations. Alexandria, VA: Society for Human Resource Management, 2018.

			Gurchiek, Kathy. “Talent Management: A Key Component of HR.” SHRM Online, January 25, 2006. https://www.shrm.org/hr-today/news/hr-news/Pages/cms_015460.aspx.

			Chapter 1: Strategic and Workforce Planning

			Doran, George T. (1981) “There’s a S.M.A.R.T. Way to Write Management’s Goals and Objectives. Management Review 70 (1981): 35–36.

			Burkitt, Frank. “A Strategist’s Guide to the Internet of Things.” strategy+business (s+b), November 10, 2014. https://www.strategy-business.com/article/00294?.

			Gifford, Gayle. “Five Elements of Thinking Strategically.” Cause & Effect (blog), August 12, 2019. https://www.ceffect.com/2019/08/12/thinking-strategically/.

			Global Reporting Initiative. https://www.globalreporting.org.

			International Labour Organization (ILO). https://www.ilo.org.

			Kantor, Bob. “The RACI Matrix: Your Blueprint for Project Success.” CIO, January 30, 2018. https://www.cio.com/article/2395825/project-management-how-to-design-a-successful-raci-project-plan.html.

			Kuehner-Hebert, Katie. “Multinational Employees With a ‘Global Mindset’ Perform Better.” SHRM Online, December 20, 2018. https://www.shrm.org/resourcesandtools/hr-topics/global-hr/pages/multinational-workers-need-global-mindset.aspx.

			Lauby, Sharlyn. “Creating Strategy and Being Strategic Aren’t the Same Thing.” HR Bartender (blog), July 1, 2015. https://www.hrbartender.com/2015/training/creating-strategy-and-being-strategic-arent-the-same-thing/.

			———. Essential Meeting Blueprints for Managers: Effective Meetings Made Easy. Birmingham, UK: Impackt Publishing, 2015.

			———. “Everything HR Needs to Know about ERP.” HR Bartender (blog), September 18, 2016. https://www.hrbartender.com/2016/technology-and-social-media/everything-hr-needs-know-erp/.

			———. “Everything HR Needs to Know about the Internet of Things.” HR Bartender (blog), January 18, 2015. https://www.hrbartender.com/2015/business-and-customers/everything-hr-needs-know-internet-things/.

			———. “MOCHA: An Alternative to RACI for Organizational Accountability.” HR Bartender (blog), October 22, 2020. https://www.hrbartender.com/2020/strategy-planning/mocha-raci-accountability/.

			———. The Recruiter’s Handbook: A Complete Guide for Sourcing, Selecting, and Engaging the Best Talent. Alexandria, VA: Society for Human Resource Management, 2018.

			———. “Using RACI to Improve Organizational Teams.” HR Bartender (blog), November 22, 2015. https://www.hrbartender.com/2015/strategy-planning/using-raci-to-improve-organizational-teams/.

			LinkedIn. “About LinkedIn: Vision | Mission.” https://about.linkedin.com.

			MBA Skool Team. “Regiocentric Orientation Meaning & Definition.” MBA Skool. Updated May 20, 2016. https://www.mbaskool.com/business-concepts/marketing-and-strategy-terms/16111-regiocentric-orientation.html.

			Miller, Kelsey. “The Triple Bottom Line: What It Is and Why It’s Important.” Business Insights (blog), December 8, 2020. https://online.hbs.edu/blog/post/what-is-the-triple-bottom-line.

			Mintern, Tom, and Sam Rayner. “8 Aspects of GDPR Compliance: A Brief Guide for HR Functions.” SHRM Online, March 30, 2018. Originally published on Lexology (blog), March 27, 2018. https://www.shrm.org/resourcesandtools/legal-and-compliance/employment-law/pages/global-gdpr-hr.aspx.

			Project Management Institute. “What Is Project Management?” https://www.pmi.org/about/learn-about-pmi/what-is-project-management.

			Society for Human Resource Management. “Globalization (definitions).” In Workplace. Vol. 4 of The SHRM Learning System. Alexandria, VA: Society for Human Resource Management, 2021.

			———. “Understanding and Developing Organizational Culture (toolkit).” June 1, 2021. https://www.shrm.org/resourcesandtools/tools-and-samples/toolkits/pages/understandinganddevelopingorganizationalculture.aspx.

			———. “What Are the Basics of Environmental Scanning as Part of the Strategic Planning Process? (HR Q&As).” https://www.shrm.org/resourcesandtools/tools-and-samples/hr-qa/pages/basics-of-environmental-scanning.aspx.

			Twin, Alexandra. “Key Performance Indicators (KPIs).” Investopedia. Updated July 6, 2021. https://www.investopedia.com/terms/k/kpi.asp.

			Wikipedia, s.v. “Responsibility Assignment Matrix.” Last modified January 12, 2022. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Responsibility_assignment_matrix.

			United Nations Industrial Development Organization. “What Is CSR?” https://www.unido.org/our-focus/advancing-economic-competitiveness/competitive-trade-capacities-and-corporate-responsibility/corporate-social-responsibility-market-integration/what-csr.

			U.S. Department of Commerce, International Trade Administration. “Free Trade Agreement Overview.” https://www.trade.gov/free-trade-agreement-overview.

			The Walt Disney Company. “About The Walt Disney Company: Our Mission.” https://thewaltdisneycompany.com/about/.

			Chapter 2: Talent Acquisition

			Federal Communications Commission. FCC 12–90. “Eighth Broadband Progress Report.” Released August 21, 2012. https://www.fcc.gov/reports-research/reports/broadband-progress-reports/eighth-broadband-progress-report.

			IslerDare PC. “Termination: Older Worker Act (OWBPA) Waiver (tools & samples).” SHRM Online. https://www.shrm.org/resourcesandtools/tools-and-samples/hr-forms/pages/cms_002029.aspx.

			Lauby, Sharlyn. “Employee Referral Programs: Make Them More Effective with Goals.” HR Bartender (blog), May 14, 2019. https://www.hrbartender.com/2019/recruiting/employee-referral-programs-goals/.

			———. “Everything HR Needs to Know about Artificial Intelligence.” HR Bartender (blog), June 10, 2018. https://www.hrbartender.com/2018/technology-and-social-media/everything-hr-know-artificial-intelligence/.

			———. “Improve the Candidate Experience with Better Scheduling.” HR Bartender (blog), December 8, 2020. https://www.hrbartender.com/2020/recruiting/improve-scheduling/.

			———. “Labor Law Posters Are Not a Substitute for Mandatory Employee Handouts.” HR Bartender (blog), December 11, 2018. https://www.hrbartender.com/2018/hr-law-legislation/mandatory-employee-handouts/.

			———. “The Reason Companies Should Calculate Cost Per Hire.” HR Bartender (blog), August 17, 2017. https://www.hrbartender.com/2017/recruiting/calculate-cost-per-hire/.

			———. “Recruiting Strategy: Bots and 3 Workforce Ingredients.” HR Bartender (blog), January 12, 2020. https://www.hrbartender.com/2020/recruiting/recruiting-workforce-bots/.

			———. “Why Organizations Use Assessments.” HR Bartender (blog), August 25, 2020. https://www.hrbartender.com/2020/recruiting/why-organizations-use-assessments/.

			Merriam-Webster, s.v. “Social Media.” Accessed February 8, 2022. https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/social%20media.

			Pew Research Center. “Mobile Fact Sheet.” April 7, 2021. https://www.pewresearch.org/internet/fact-sheet/mobile/.

			Renzulli, Kerri Anne. “75% of Resumes Are Never Read by a Human—Here’s How to Make Sure Your Resume Beats the Bots.” CNBC. February 28, 2019. https://www.cnbc.com/2019/02/28/resume-how-yours-can-beat-the-applicant-tracking-system.html.

			SHRM Foundation. “Digital Toolkit: Hiring and Developing Employees with Criminal Backgrounds.” Getting Talent Back to Work. https://www.gettingtalentbacktowork.org/learn-more/.

			Society for Human Resource Management. “Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967.” https://www.shrm.org/hr-today/public-policy/hr-public-policy-issues/pages/agediscriminationinemploymentactof1967.aspx.

			———. “Average Cost-per-Hire for Companies Is $4,129, SHRM Survey Finds.” Press release, August 3, 2016. https://www.shrm.org/about-shrm/press-room/press-releases/pages/human-capital-benchmarking-report.aspx.

			———. “Candidate Evaluation Form (sample).” https://www.shrm.org/resourcesandtools/tools-and-samples/hr-forms/pages/candidate-evaluation-form.aspx.

			———. “Conducting Background Investigations and Reference Checks (toolkit).” https://www.shrm.org/resourcesandtools/tools-and-samples/toolkits/pages/conductingbackgroundinvestigations.aspx.

			———. “Introduction to the Human Resources Discipline of Talent Management (toolkit).” https://www.shrm.org/resourcesandtools/tools-and-samples/toolkits/pages/intro-talent-acquisition.aspx.

			———. “Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964.” https://www.shrm.org/hr-today/public-policy/hr-public-policy-issues/pages/titleviiofthecivilrightsactof1964.aspx.

			———. “What Are Disparate Impact and Disparate Treatment? (HR Q&As).” https://www.shrm.org/resourcesandtools/tools-and-samples/hr-qa/pages/disparateimpactdisparatetreatment.aspx.

			———. “What Is Talent Acquisition? (tools & samples).” https://www.shrm.org/resourcesandtools/tools-and-samples/pages/what-is-talent-acquisition.aspx.

			———. “What You Need to Know about the Americans with Disabilities Act.” https://www.shrm.org/ResourcesAndTools/tools-and-samples/need-to-know/Pages/What-You-Need-to-Know-About-the-Americans-with-Disabilities-Act.aspx.

			Steiner, Keenan. “Bad Candidate Experience Cost Virgin Media $5M Annually—Here Is How They Turned That Around.” LinkedIn Talent Blog, March 15, 2017. https://www.linkedin.com/business/talent/blog/talent-acquisition/bad-candidate-experience-cost-virgin-media-5m-annually-and-how-they-turned-that-around.

			Talent Board. 2016 Candidate Experience Research Report. https://www.thetalentboard.org/benchmark-research/cande-research-reports/

			Talentegy. 2019 Candidate Experience Report: Perceptions & Behaviors. https://www.talentegy.com/hubfs/2019%20CX%20Report/Talentegy-2019%20Candidate%20Experience%20Report.pdf.

			U.S. Department of Justice, Civil Rights Division. “Information and Technical Assistance on the Americans with Disabilities Act.” https://www.ada.gov.

			U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. “The Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967.” https://www.eeoc.gov/statutes/age-discrimination-employment-act-1967.

			Wikipedia, s.v. “Sony Pictures Hack.” Last modified January 4, 2022. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sony_Pictures_hack.

			Wilson, Arthur. “10 Awesome Employer Brands (and What Makes Them Great).” Workstars (blog), February 27, 2020. https://www.workstars.com/recognition-and-engagement-blog/2020/02/27/10-awesome-employer-brands-and-what-makes-them-great/.

			Chapter 3: Onboarding and Employee Engagement

			Alzheimer’s Association. “Huntington’s Disease.” https://www.alz.org/alzheimers-dementia/what-is-dementia/types-of-dementia/huntington-s-disease.

			Bersin, Josh. “Why Belonging Is Such a Big Issue in Business Today.” The Josh Bersin Company. Updated September 7, 2020. https://joshbersin.com/2020/08/why-belonging-is-a-big-issue-in-business-today/.

			Cho, Janet H. “‘Diversity Is Being Invited to the Party; Inclusion Is Being Asked to Dance,’ Verna Myers Tells Cleveland Bar.” The Plain Dealer, January 11, 2019. https://www.cleveland.com/business/2016/05/diversity_is_being_invited_to.html.

			Cronquist, Danielle. “3 Important Differences between Reward and Recognition.” BambooHR (blog), December 17, 2019. https://www.bamboohr.com/blog/difference-reward-and-recognition/.

			Eskalera. “Covering, Assimilation, and Code-Switching: A Quick Guide.” Eskalera Blog, March 4, 2019. https://eskalera.com/covering-assimilation-and-code-switching-a-quick-guide/.

			Folger, Jean. “The Causes and Costs of Absenteeism.” Investopedia. Updated May 26, 2021. https://www.investopedia.com/articles/personal-finance/070513/causes-and-costs-absenteeism.asp.

			Huang, Steven. “Why Does Belonging Matter at Work?” The SHRM Blog, July 3, 2020. https://blog.shrm.org/blog/why-does-belonging-matter-at-work.

			Intuit. “The Ultimate List of Time and Attendance Statistics.” https://quickbooks.intuit.com/time-tracking/resources/time-attendance-stats/.

			Kokemuller, Neil. “The Importance of Assimilation in Business.” Chron. https://smallbusiness.chron.com/importance-assimilation-business-48834.html.

			Korn Ferry. “Korn Ferry Futurestep Survey: 90 Percent of Executives Say New Hire Retention an Issue.” Press release, March 21, 2017. https://ir.kornferry.com/news-events/press-releases/detail/336/korn-ferry-futurestep-survey-90-percent-of-executives-say.

			Lauby, Sharlyn. “4 Reasons New Hires Should Have an Onboarding Buddy.” SilkRoad Technology. https://silkroadtechnology.com/onboarding/4-reasons-new-hires-onboarding-buddy/.

			———. “5 Considerations for a Mobile Device Policy.” HR Bartender (blog), February 14, 2012. https://www.hrbartender.com/2012/training/5-considerations-for-a-mobile-device-policy/.

			———. “Don’t Tell Employees Why the Company Culture Is Great.” HR Bartender (blog), March 16, 2017. https://www.hrbartender.com/2017/recruiting/dont-tell-company-culture-great/.

			———. “The Future Workplace: Organizations Can Create Workplace Belonging. Interview with Jarrod Harden.” The HR Bartender Show. Podcast audio. February 28, 2021. https://www.hrbartender.com/2021/employee-engagement/workplace-belonging/.

			———. “The Key to Employee Engagement: Your Net Promoter Score.” HR Bartender (blog), May 2, 2017. https://www.hrbartender.com/2017/employee-engagement/key-employee-engagement/.

			———. “Opinion Surveys.” HR Bartender (blog), January 5, 2010. https://www.hrbartender.com/2010/employee-engagement/opinion-surveys/.

			———. “Prevent Exit Interviews with Stay Interviews.” HR Bartender (blog), June 16, 2015. https://www.hrbartender.com/2015/leadership-and-management/prevent-exit-interviews-with-stay-interviews/.

			———. “Your HR Technology Implementation Checklist.” HR Bartender (blog), May 28, 2014. https://www.hrbartender.com/2014/recruiting/your-hr-technology-implementation-checklist/.

			Mann, Annamarie. “Why We Need Best Friends at Work.” Gallup, January 15, 2018. https://www.gallup.com/workplace/236213/why-need-best-friends-work.aspx.

			Merriman, Rachel. “How to Create a Unique Company Culture.” Austin Woman, July 1, 2015. https://atxwoman.com/company-culture/

			Municipal Technical Advisory Service, Institute for Public Service, University of Tennessee System. “Examples of Potential Discrimination Prohibited by GINA.” Reviewed December 1, 2021. https://www.mtas.tennessee.edu/reference/examples-potential-discrimination-prohibited-gina.

			Pavlou, Christina. “How to Reduce New Hire Turnover.” Workable. https://resources.workable.com/tutorial/new-hire-turnover-rate.

			SHRM Foundation. “Employing Abilities @Work.” https://employingabilities.org.

			———. “Veterans at Work Certificate Program.” https://www.shrm.org/foundation/about/Pages/Veterans-at-Work-Certificate-Program.aspx.

			Society for Human Resource Management. “Diversity CLA Definitions of Diversity & Inclusion.” https://community.shrm.org/vlrc/viewdocument/diversity-cla-definitions-of-divers?CommunityKey=3fce3c52-fe59-4917-8289-af7d8b4190a9&tab=librarydocuments.

			———. “Introduction to the Human Resources Discipline of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (toolkit).” https://www.shrm.org/resourcesandtools/tools-and-samples/toolkits/pages/introdiversity.aspx.

			———. “Together Forward @Work.” https://togetherforwardatwork.shrm.org.

			———. “Understanding Employee Onboarding (toolkit).” https://www.shrm.org/resourcesandtools/tools-and-samples/toolkits/pages/understanding-employee-onboarding.aspx.

			———. “Developing and Sustaining Employee Engagement (toolkit).” https://www.shrm.org/resourcesandtools/tools-and-samples/toolkits/pages/sustainingemployeeengagement.aspx.

			———. “What Is Employment Practice Liability Insurance? (HR Q&As).” https://www.shrm.org/resourcesandtools/tools-and-samples/hr-qa/pages/whatisemploymentpracticesliabilityinsurance.aspx.

			U.S. Department of Health & Human Services, Office for Civil Rights. “Health Information Privacy.” https://www.hhs.gov/hipaa/index.html.

			U.S. Department of Labor, Occupational Safety and Health Administration. “About OSHA.” https://www.osha.gov/aboutosha.

			U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. “Genetic Information Discrimination.” https://www.eeoc.gov/genetic-information-discrimination.

			Chapter 4: Performance Management

			Accenture. “2016 U.S. College Graduates Value Culture Over Compensation.” Press release, May 12, 2016. https://newsroom.accenture.com/news/2016-us-college-graduates-value-culture-over-compensation-according-to-accenture-strategy-research.htm.

			Brookmire, David. “Should You Tell Employees They’re High Potential?” The SHRM Blog. August 14, 2014. https://blog.shrm.org/workforce/should-you-tell-employees-theyre-high-potential.

			Carbone, Nick. “Would You Sacrifice Pay to Work for an Ethical Company?” TIME, May 22, 2011. https://newsfeed.time.com/2011/05/22/would-you-sacrifice-pay-to-work-for-an-ethical-company/

			Cross, Rob, Reb Rebele, and Adam Grant. “Collaborative Overload.” Harvard Business Review, January–February 2016. https://hbr.org/2016/01/collaborative-overload.

			Dorsey, David, and Rose Mueller-Hanson. Performance Management That Makes a Difference: An Evidence Based Approach. SHRM Science to Practice Series. Alexandria, VA: Society for Human Resource Management, December 2017. https://www.shrm.org/hr-today/trends-and-forecasting/special-reports-and-expert-views/documents/performance%20management.pdf.

			Drucker, Peter F. The Practice of Management. New York: Harper & Row, 1954

			Frigo, Mark L., and Hans Læssøe. “Strategic Risk Management at the LEGO Group: Integrating Strategy and Risk Management.” Strategic Finance 93, no. 2 (February 2012). https://ebrary.net/9830/management/papa_model.

			Fox, Adrienne. “Pregnancy Rights in the Workplace: Know the Law.” SHRM Online, February 1, 2014. https://www.shrm.org/hr-today/news/hr-magazine/pages/0214-pregnancy-accommodation_1.aspx.

			Pennington, Harold G. “Delegation vs. Empowerment.” Diffzi, January 19, 2019. https://diffzi.com/delegation-vs-empowerment/.

			The Hartford. “How to Identify Top Performers and Future Leaders.” Business Owner’s Playbook. https://www.thehartford.com/business-insurance/strategy/employee-performance/traits-top-employees.

			Lauby, Sharlyn. “5 Ways to Keep Performance Reviews from Becoming Boring.” HR Bartender (blog), March 20, 2016. https://www.hrbartender.com/2016/recruiting/5-ways-keep-performance-reviews-becoming-boring/.

			———. “9 Things to Consider When Purchasing HR Technology.” HR Bartender (blog), September 15, 2019. https://www.hrbartender.com/2019/technology-and-social-media/hr-technology-purchasing/.

			———. “The Difference Between Goals, Objectives, and Outcomes.” HR Bartender (blog), July 31, 2018. https://www.hrbartender.com/2018/training/goals-objectives-outcomes/.

			———. “The Difference Between Knowledge, Skills, and Abilities.” HR Bartender (blog), December 29, 2013. https://www.hrbartender.com/2013/recruiting/the-difference-between-knowledge-skills-and-abilities/.

			———. “Ethics Has a Price Tag.” HR Bartender (blog), November 10, 2011. https://www.hrbartender.com/2011/leadership-and-management/ethics-has-a-price-tag/.

			———. “Here’s What Happens When You Kill the Performance Appraisal.” HR Bartender (blog), June 16, 2014. https://www.hrbartender.com/2014/employee-engagement/heres-what-happens-when-you-kill-the-performance-appraisal/.

			———. “Meeting the Company Standard.” HR Bartender (blog), March 23, 2010. https://www.hrbartender.com/2010/training/meeting-the-company-standard/.

			———. “Performance Coaching: How to Have an Employee Conversation.” HR Bartender (blog), September 17, 2020. https://www.hrbartender.com/2020/leadership-and-management/performance-coaching-tips/.

			———. “Performance Reviews: Overcoming 5 Common Biases.” HR Bartender (blog), July 16, 2020. https://www.hrbartender.com/2020/leadership-and-management/performance-reviews-biases/.

			———. “Performance Reviews Are a Process Not an Event.” HR Bartender (blog), January 26, 2016. https://www.hrbartender.com/2016/employee-engagement/performance-reviews-are-a-process-not-an-event/.

			———. “Sleep Deprivation and Ethics.” HR Bartender (blog), December 1, 2011. https://www.hrbartender.com/2011/leadership-and-management/sleep-deprivation-and-ethics/.

			Lexico, s.v. “Bias.” Accessed February 8, 2022. https://www.lexico.com/en/definition/bias.

			———, s.v. “Process.” Accessed February 8, 2022. https://www.lexico.com/en/definition/process.

			Meinert, Dori. “How to Investigate Sexual Harassment Allegations.” HR Magazine, February, 2018. https://www.shrm.org/hr-today/news/hr-magazine/0218/pages/how-to-investigate-sexual-harassment-allegations.aspx.

			Merriam-Webster, s.v. “Ethic.” Accessed February 8, 2022. https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/ethic.

			Nagele-Piazza, Lisa. “Workplace Drug Testing: Weighing the Pros and Cons.” SHRM Online, January 21, 2020. https://www.shrm.org/resourcesandtools/legal-and-compliance/state-and-local-updates/pages/the-pros-and-cons-of-workplace-drug-testing.aspx.

			O’Donnell Maroney, Joyce, and the Workforce Institute at Kronos. Being Present: A Practical Guide for Transforming the Employee Experience of Your Frontline Workforce. Lowell, MA: Kronos Inc., 2019.

			Society for Human Resource Management. “Are Employees Undergoing Treatment for Drug and Alcohol Addictions Covered Under the ADA? (HR Q&As).” October 29, 2020. https://www.shrm.org/resourcesandtools/tools-and-samples/hr-qa/pages/adadrugsandalcohol.aspx.

			———. “Bylaws & Code of Ethics.” https://www.shrm.org/about-shrm/pages/bylaws--code-of-ethics.aspx.

			———. “Code of Ethics and Business Conduct (sample).” https://www.shrm.org/resourcesandtools/tools-and-samples/policies/pages/code-of-ethics-conduct-policy.aspx.

			———. “Drug and Alcohol Policy (sample).” https://www.shrm.org/resourcesandtools/tools-and-samples/policies/pages/cms_019908.aspx.

			———. “Employee Conduct and Work Rules Policy (sample).” https://www.shrm.org/resourcesandtools/tools-and-samples/policies/pages/cms_006651.aspx.

			———. “Introduction to the Human Resource Discipline of Safety and Security (toolkit).” https://www.shrm.org/resourcesandtools/tools-and-samples/toolkits/pages/introsafetyandsecurity.aspx.

			———. “Risk Management.” In Workplace. Vol. 4 of The SHRM Learning System. Alexandria, VA: Society for Human Resource Management, 2021.

			———. “Sexual Harassment Policy and Complaint/Investigation Procedure (sample).” https://www.shrm.org/resourcesandtools/tools-and-samples/policies/pages/cms_000554.aspx.

			———. “Understanding Workplace Violence Prevention and Response (toolkit).” https://www.shrm.org/resourcesandtools/tools-and-samples/toolkits/pages/workplace-violence-prevention-and-response.aspx.

			———. “What Are the Different Types of Sexual Harassment? (HR Q&As).” September 11, 2019. https://www.shrm.org/resourcesandtools/tools-and-samples/hr-qa/pages/typesofsexualharassment.aspx.

			Society for Human Resource Management/Globoforce. Survey Findings: Employee Recognition Programs—2015. June 22, 2015. https://www.shrm.org/hr-today/trends-and-forecasting/research-and-surveys/pages/shrm-globoforce-employee-recognition-2015.aspx.

			U.S. Department of Health & Human Services, Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA). “Considerations for Safety- and Security-Sensitive Industries.” Last modified June 24, 2020. https://www.samhsa.gov/workplace/legal/federal-laws/safety-security-sensitive.

			U.S. Department of Labor. “Family and Medical Leave Act Advisor: Serious Health Condition—Leave for Treatment of Substance Abuse.” https://webapps.dol.gov/elaws/whd/fmla/10c9.aspx.

			U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. “The Pregnancy Discrimination Act of 1978.” https://www.eeoc.gov/statutes/pregnancy-discrimination-act-1978.

			Wikipedia, s.v. “Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1988.” Last modified December 7, 2020. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Drug-Free_Workplace_Act_of_1988.

			———, s.v. “Management by Objectives.” Last modified January 7, 2022. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Management_by_objectives.

			Chapter 5: Employee Value Proposition

			Carver, Cassandra. “Employee Compensation: Everything You Need to Know.” Astron Solutions, October 1, 2020. https://astronsolutions.net/employee-compensation/.

			Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. Financial Wellness at Work, August 2014. https://files.consumerfinance.gov/f/201408_cfpb_report_financial-wellness-at-work.pdf.

			Duncan, Stephan. “What Is Broadbanding in Compensation?” Salary.com (blog), May 16, 2019. https://www.salary.com/blog/what-is-broadbanding-in-compensation/.

			Faurote, Cassandra. “Compensation Sense: Pay Differentials: What They Are, Why They Matter, and How to Use Them.” Total Reward Solutions (blog), August 11, 2017. https://www.totalrsolutions.com/compensation-sense-pay-differentials-what-they-are-why-they-matter-and-how-to-use-them/.

			Glassdoor. “New Survey Reveals 75% of Millennials Expect Employers to Take a Stand on Social Issues.” July 28, 2020. https://www.glassdoor.com/blog/corporate-social-responsibility/.

			Goldberg, Rafi. “Nearly a Third of American Employees Worked Remotely in 2019, NTIA Data Show.” U.S. Department of Commerce, National Telecommunications and Information Administration, September 3, 2020. https://www.ntia.gov/blog/2020/nearly-third-american-employees-worked-remotely-2019-ntia-data-show.

			Lauby, Sharlyn. “5 Currencies Essential to Your Company’s Employee Value Proposition.” Workforce Institute @UKG (blog), February 12, 2019. https://workforceinstitute.org/%EF%BB%BF5-currencies-essential-to-your-companys-employee-value-proposition/.

			———. “6 Different Types of Flexible Work for Employee Caregivers.” HR Bartender (blog), November 3, 2019. https://www.hrbartender.com/2019/employee-engagement/flexible-work-caregivers/.

			———. “Consider the Implications of Grandfathering Benefits.” HR Bartender (blog), March 24, 2019. https://www.hrbartender.com/2019/recruiting/grandfathering-benefits/.

			———. “Considerations When Eliminating Employee Benefits.” HR Bartender (blog), June 30, 2019. https://www.hrbartender.com/2019/employee-engagement/eliminating-employee-benefits/.

			———. “Employee Compensation Practices Could Be Impacted by Remote Work.” HR Bartender (blog), April 25, 2021. https://www.hrbartender.com/2021/recruiting/compensation-remote-work/.

			———. “Employee Financial Wellbeing Benefits the Bottom Line.” HR Bartender (blog), May 11, 2021. https://www.hrbartender.com/2021/recruiting/employee-financial-wellbeing/.

			———. “Front Loading Paid Time Off: Pros and Cons.” HR Bartender (blog), January 21, 2021. https://www.hrbartender.com/2021/employee-engagement/front-loading-pto-pros-cons/.

			———. “How to Build a New Employee Benefits Plan Post Merger.” HR Bartender (blog), March 28, 2021. https://www.hrbartender.com/2021/employee-engagement/build-employee-benefits-merger/.

			———. “A New Employee Benefit: Social Justice PTO.” HR Bartender (blog), October 19, 2017. https://www.hrbartender.com/2017/recruiting/new-employee-benefit-social-justice-pto/.

			Mercadante, Kevin. “What You Need to Know If Your Job Offers Employee Stock Options.” Money Under 30, May 14, 2021. https://www.moneyunder30.com/employee-stock-options.

			Miller, Stephen. “Employers Award a Wider Variety of Incentive Pay.” SHRM Online, March 21, 2014. https://www.shrm.org/resourcesandtools/hr-topics/compensation/pages/incentive-pay-variety.aspx.

			Owl Labs, and Global Workplace Analytics. State of Remote Work Report 2019. OWL Labs. https://resources.owllabs.com/state-of-remote-work/2019.

			Rath, Tom, and Jim Harter. “The Five Essential Elements of Well-Being.” Gallup, May 4, 2010. https://www.gallup.com/workplace/237020/five-essential-elements.aspx.

			Society for Human Resource Management. “Employment Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA).” December 1, 2002. https://www.shrm.org/hr-today/public-policy/hr-public-policy-issues/pages/employmentretirementincomesecurityact(erisa).aspx.

			———. “The Equal Pay Act of 1963.” https://www.shrm.org/hr-today/public-policy/hr-public-policy-issues/pages/theequalpayactof1963.aspx.

			———. “Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938.” https://www.shrm.org/hr-today/public-policy/hr-public-policy-issues/pages/fairlaborstandardsactof1938.aspx.

			———. “Family and Medical Leave Act.” https://www.shrm.org/resourcesandtools/pages/family-and-medical-leave-act.aspx.

			———. “How to Establish Salary Ranges.” May 23, 2018. https://www.shrm.org/resourcesandtools/tools-and-samples/how-to-guides/pages/howtoestablishsalaryranges.aspx.

			———. “Introduction to the Human Resources Discipline of Compensation (toolkit).” May 5, 2017. https://www.shrm.org/resourcesandtools/tools-and-samples/toolkits/pages/introcompensation.aspx.

			———. “Under the FLSA, When Must Nonexempt Employees be Paid for Travel Time? (HR Q&As).” August 20, 2021. https://www.shrm.org/resourcesandtools/tools-and-samples/hr-qa/pages/cms_014392.aspx.

			Singletary, M. “The FDIC Wants to Make it Easier for Millions of ‘Unbanked’ Americans to Get Their Stimulus Payments.” The Washington Post, April 6, 2021. https://www.washingtonpost.com/business/2021/04/06/fdic-unbanked-campaign/.

			Stange, Jocelyn. “The Big List of Employee Perks: 45 Perks to Attract and Retain Talent.” Quantum Workplace, September 15, 2020. https://www.quantumworkplace.com/future-of-work/employee-perks.

			U.S. Department of Labor, Wage and Hour Division. “Family and Medical Leave Act.” https://www.dol.gov/agencies/whd/fmla.

			WorldatWork. 2020 Inventory of Total Rewards Programs and Practices. December 2020. https://worldatwork.org/resources/research/surveys/total-rewards-inventory-programs-and-practices.

			Yildirmaz, Ahu, and Sara Klein. Evolution of Pay Report. ADP Research Institute. https://www.adpri.org/assets/evolution-of-pay-report/.

			Chapter 6: Learning and Development

			Aquent. “Aquent Launches MOOC Program to Transform Training for Creative Professionals.” Press release, July 8, 2013. https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/aquent-launches-mooc-program-to-transform-training-for-creative-professionals-214605151.html.

			Goleman, Daniel, and Richard E. Boyatzis. “Emotional Intelligence Has 12 Elements. Which Do You Need to Work On?” Harvard Business Review, February 6, 2017. https://hbr.org/2017/02/emotional-intelligence-has-12-elements-which-do-you-need-to-work-on.

			Kaminski, Karen, and Tobin Lopes. Return on Investment: Training and Development. Alexandria, VA: Society for Human Resource Management, 2009. https://www.shrm.org/certification/educators/Documents/09-0168%20Kaminski%20ROI%20TnD%20IM_FINAL.pdf.

			Lauby, Sharlyn. “Bookmark This! Content Curation Edition.” HR Bartender (blog), August 10, 2018. https://www.hrbartender.com/2018/training/content-curation/.

			———. “Change Management: A 3-Step Model.” HR Bartender (blog), April 11, 2019. https://www.hrbartender.com/2019/training/change-management-model/.

			———. “Change Management Thrives When We Take Time to Stop.” HR Bartender (blog), October 27, 2019. https://www.hrbartender.com/2019/leadership-and-management/change-management-stop/.

			———. “How to Conduct an Effective Gap Analysis.” HR Bartender (blog), July 7, 2020. https://www.hrbartender.com/2020/strategy-planning/gap-analysis/.

			———. “Informal and Social Learning Through Curation.” HR Bartender (blog), June 26, 2014. https://www.hrbartender.com/2014/training/informal-social-learning-curation/.

			———. “INTERVIEW: Dr. Eduardo Salas on Best Practices for Developing Teamwork.” HR Bartender (blog), August 18, 2013. https://www.hrbartender.com/2013/training/interview-dr-eduardo-salas-on-best-practices-for-developing-teamwork/.

			———. “INTERVIEW: Dr. John Kotter on Creating Organizational Change.” HR Bartender (blog), November 13, 2011. https://www.hrbartender.com/2011/business-and-customers/interview-dr-john-kotter-on-creating-organizational-change/.

			———. “Measure Training Effectiveness by Results, Not Hours.” HR Bartender (blog), November 17, 2016. https://www.hrbartender.com/2016/training/measure-training-effectiveness/.

			———. “Microlearning: 5 Reasons Your Company Should Consider It.” HR Bartender (blog), November 8, 2018. https://www.hrbartender.com/2018/training/microlearning-reasons-consider/.

			———. “When Does a Theory Become Outdated.” HR Bartender (blog), November 1, 2018. https://www.hrbartender.com/2018/training/theory-outdated/.

			OpenSesame. “LMS vs LCMS vs CMS . . . Changing One Letter Makes a Big Difference.” OpenSesame Blog. https://www.opensesame.com/site/blog/lms-vs-lcms-vs-cmschanging-one-letter-makes-big-difference/.

			Seth, Satyendra. “Organizational Development (OD) Interventions.” LinkedIn, April 17, 2017. https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/organizational-development-od-interventions-satyendra-seth/.

			Society for Human Resource Management. SHRM Body of Applied Skills and Knowledge. Alexandria, VA: 2021. https://www.shrm.org/certification/about/body-of-applied-skills-and-knowledge/Pages/default.aspx.

			Wikipedia, s.v. “ADDIE Model.” Last modified September 20, 2021. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ADDIE_Model.

			Chapter 7: Succession Planning, Upskilling, and Reskilling

			Donovan, John, and Cathy Benko. “AT&T’s Talent Overhaul,” Harvard Business Review, October 2016. https://hbr.org/2016/10/atts-talent-overhaul.

			Lauby, Sharlyn. “7 Steps to Developing a Replacement Plan.” SHRM Online, May 15, 2018. https://www.shrm.org/ResourcesAndTools/hr-topics/talent-acquisition/Pages/7-Steps-to-Developing-a-Replacement-Plan.aspx.

			———. “10 Must-Haves for a Successful Company Intern Program.” HR Bartender (blog), October 10, 2013. https://www.hrbartender.com/2013/recruiting/10-must-haves-for-a-successful-company-intern-program/.

			———. “Best Practices: Relocation and Trailing Spouses.” HR Bartender (blog), June 28, 2016. https://www.hrbartender.com/2016/well-being-wellness/best-practices-relocation-trailing-spouses/.

			———. “Career Development: Use a 360 Review WITH a Performance Appraisal.” HR Bartender (blog), March 9, 2021. https://www.hrbartender.com/2021/employee-engagement/360-review-with-performance-appraisal/.

			———. “Employee Coaching Works When It’s a Part of Company Culture.” HR Bartender (blog), October 22, 2017. https://www.hrbartender.com/2017/employee-engagement/employee-coaching-works/.

			———. “How to Prepare Employees for Getting and Giving a 360 Feedback Review.” HR Bartender (blog), April 7, 2020. https://www.hrbartender.com/2020/career-development/360-feedback-review/.

			———. “Mentors or Coaches—Why You Need Both.” HR Bartender (blog), November 18, 2012. https://www.hrbartender.com/2012/training/mentors-or-coaches-why-you-need-both/.

			———. “People Analytics: How to Solve Business Problems.” HR Bartender (blog), January 5, 2020. https://www.hrbartender.com/2020/recruiting/people-analytics-solve-business-problems/.

			———. “Preparing for HR Assignments in Another Country.” HR Bartender (blog), July 3, 2014. https://www.hrbartender.com/2014/training/preparing-hr-assignments-another-country-ask-hr-bartender/.

			McKinsey & Company. “Mind the [Skills] Gap.” January 27, 2021. https://www.mckinsey.com/featured-insights/coronavirus-leading-through-the-crisis/charting-the-path-to-the-next-normal/mind-the-skills-gap.

			Poe, Andrea C. “Welcome Back: You Sent Your Employees Overseas—Will You Be There to Welcome Them Back When They Return?” HR Magazine, March 1, 2000. https://www.shrm.org/hr-today/news/hr-magazine/pages/0300poe.aspx.

			Society for Human Resource Management. “How to Address the Skills Gap.” https://www.shrm.org/resourcesandtools/tools-and-samples/how-to-guides/pages/how-to-address-the-skills-gap.aspx.

			———. “International Assignment Management: Expatriate Policy and Procedure (sample).” https://www.shrm.org/resourcesandtools/tools-and-samples/policies/pages/expatriateprocedure(expanded).aspx.

			———. “Managing Employee Relocation (toolkit).” https://www.shrm.org/resourcesandtools/tools-and-samples/toolkits/pages/managingemployeerelocation.aspx.

			———. “Managing International Assignments (toolkit).” May 1, 2017. https://www.shrm.org/resourcesandtools/tools-and-samples/toolkits/pages/cms_010358.aspx.

			———. “Moving and Relocation Expense Agreement (sample).” https://www.shrm.org/resourcesandtools/tools-and-samples/hr-forms/pages/relocation_movingandrelocationsexpenseagreement.aspx.

			———. “Relocation: Relocation Policy and Procedures (sample).” May 11, 2018. https://www.shrm.org/resourcesandtools/tools-and-samples/policies/pages/cms_015267.aspx.

			———. “Relocation: Temporary Assignments Policy (sample).” https://www.shrm.org/resourcesandtools/tools-and-samples/policies/pages/cms_017611.aspx.

			———. “Relocation Expenses Policy (sample).” https://www.shrm.org/resourcesandtools/tools-and-samples/policies/pages/cms_017609.aspx.

			———. “SHRM’s Guide to Relocation Services.” https://www.shrm.org/resourcesandtools/hr-topics/talent-acquisition/pages/relocation-guide.aspx.

			———. “Succession Planning: What Is a 9-Box Grid? (HR Q&As).” March 9, 2018. https://www.shrm.org/resourcesandtools/tools-and-samples/hr-qa/pages/whatsa9boxgridandhowcananhrdepartmentuseit.aspx.

			———. “What Are the Differences among a Local National, an Expatriate, a Third-Country National, and an Inpatriate? (HR Q&As).” https://www.shrm.org/resourcesandtools/tools-and-samples/hr-qa/pages/whatarethedifferencesamongalocalnational,anexpatriate,athird-countrynational,andaninpatriate.aspx.

			Steele, Celisa. “Hybrid vs. Blended Learning: The Difference and Why it Matters.” Leading Learning, October 18, 2021. https://www.leadinglearning.com/hybrid-vs-blended-learning/.

			Chapter 8: Internal and External Transitions

			AARP. “AARP Tools & Resources for Employers.” https://www.aarp.org/work/employers/info-2014/tools-resources-for-employers.html.

			Agovino, Theresa. “How to Make Your Organization Retirement-Ready.” HR Magazine, May 21, 2018. https://www.shrm.org/hr-today/news/hr-magazine/0618/pages/how-to-make-your-organization-retirement-ready.aspx.

			Blanks, Kaela. “An HR Metric: Internal Mobility Rate.” Employee Cycle, July 2, 2019. https://employeecycle.com/an-hr-metric-internal-mobility-rate/.

			Criteria Corporation. “What Is Voluntary Turnover?” https://www.criteriacorp.com/resources/glossary/voluntary-turnover.

			Glink, Ilyce, and Samuel J. Tamkin. “A Breakdown of What Living Paycheck to Paycheck Looks Like.” The Washington Post, August 17, 2020. https://www.washingtonpost.com/business/2020/08/17/breakdown-what-living-paycheck-to-paycheck-looks-like/.

			IBM Cloud Education. “Knowledge Management.” IBM, November 12, 2020. https://www.ibm.com/cloud/learn/knowledge-management.

			Lauby, Sharlyn. “4 Ways to Use Your Onboarding Technology for More Than Onboarding.” HR Bartender (blog), July 8, 2015. https://www.hrbartender.com/2015/recruiting/4-ways-to-use-your-onboarding-technology-for-more-than-onboarding/.

			———. “Add Boomerang Employees to Your Recruiting Strategy.” HR Bartender (blog), September 15, 2015. https://www.hrbartender.com/2015/strategy-planning/add-boomerang-employees-to-your-recruiting-strategy/.

			———. “Everything HR Needs to Know About HCM.” HR Bartender (blog), August 21, 2016. https://www.hrbartender.com/2016/technology-and-social-media/everything-hr-needs-know-hcm/.

			———. “Exit Interviews: Ask Employees About Their Experience.” HR Bartender (blog), August 22, 2021. https://www.hrbartender.com/2021/employee-engagement/exit-interviews-ask-experience/.

			———. “How To: Fire an Employee.” HR Bartender (blog), January 20, 2013. https://www.hrbartender.com/2013/employee-engagement/how-to-fire-an-employee/.

			———. “Phased Retirement: Be Prepared to Initiate the Conversation.” Unretirement Project (blog), April 25, 2018. https://unretirementproject.com/2018/04/25/phased-retirement-initiate-conversation/.

			———. “Sometimes Employees Leave Jobs (Not Managers).” HR Bartender (blog), August 28, 2016. https://www.hrbartender.com/2016/recruiting/sometimes-employees-leave-jobs-not-managers/.

			———. “Terminating Employees: How to Fire Right.” HR Bartender (blog), February 3, 2013. https://www.hrbartender.com/2013/training/terminating-employees-how-to-fire-right-free-resource/.

			———. “Turn Payroll into a Strategic Function.” HR Bartender (blog), September 2, 2021. https://www.hrbartender.com/2021/strategy-planning/payroll-strategic-function/.

			———. “What Employers Should Do When an Employee Resigns.” HR Bartender (blog), January 23, 2018. https://www.hrbartender.com/2018/recruiting/employers-employee-resigns/.

			Merriam-Webster, s.v. “Retirement.” Accessed February 8, 2022. https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/retirement.

			Nagele-Piazza, Lisa. “Tips for Obeying Final Pay Rules.” HR Magazine, April 19, 2018. https://www.shrm.org/hr-today/news/hr-magazine/0518/pages/tips-for-obeying-final-pay-rules.aspx.

			Paycor. “Final Paycheck Laws by State.” Updated December 2, 2020. https://www.paycor.com/resource-center/articles/final-paycheck-laws-by-state/.

			Sieben, Lauren. “How to Manage an Employee Who’s Been Demoted.” SHRM Online, August 11, 2021. https://www.shrm.org/resourcesandtools/hr-topics/people-managers/pages/managing-demoted-employees.aspx.

			Society for Human Resource Management. “At-Will Employment Policy Statement (sample).” https://www.shrm.org/resourcesandtools/tools-and-samples/policies/pages/atwillpolicystatement.aspx.

			———. “Checklist: COBRA Administration (sample).” https://www.shrm.org/resourcesandtools/tools-and-samples/hr-forms/pages/cobra_checklist.aspx.

			———. “Checklist: Reduction in Force (RIF) Strategy and Selection (sample).” https://www.shrm.org/resourcesandtools/tools-and-samples/hr-forms/pages/downsizingchecklist.aspx.

			———. “COBRA: Termination of Coverage Notice (sample).” https://www.shrm.org/resourcesandtools/tools-and-samples/hr-forms/pages/cms_009553.aspx.

			———. “Employment at Will (glossary term).” https://www.shrm.org/resourcesandtools/tools-and-samples/hr-glossary/pages/employment-at-will.aspx.

			———. “Employment-at-Will Training (sample).” https://www.shrm.org/resourcesandtools/tools-and-samples/presentations/pages/employment-at-willtrainingforsupervisors.aspx.

			———. “How to Conduct a Layoff or Reduction in Force.” https://www.shrm.org/resourcesandtools/tools-and-samples/how-to-guides/pages/conductlayofforrif.aspx.

			———. “How to Determine Turnover Rate.” https://www.shrm.org/resourcesandtools/tools-and-samples/how-to-guides/pages/determineturnoverrate.aspx.

			———. “How Should We Handle Employee Demotions? (HR Q&As).” https://www.shrm.org/resourcesandtools/tools-and-samples/hr-qa/pages/howshouldwehandleemployeedemotions.aspx.

			———. “Job Posting Policy: Staff Promotions (sample).” https://www.shrm.org/resourcesandtools/tools-and-samples/policies/pages/job-posting-policy---staff-promotions.aspx.

			———. “Many Small Businesses Still Use Paper Checks for Pay.” August 26, 2011. https://www.shrm.org/resourcesandtools/hr-topics/compensation/pages/directdeposit.aspx.

			———. “Promotion Announcement (sample).” https://www.shrm.org/resourcesandtools/tools-and-samples/hr-forms/pages/1cms_002171.aspx.

			———. “Reduction in Force Policy: Selection and Severance Pay (sample).” https://www.shrm.org/resourcesandtools/tools-and-samples/policies/pages/reductioninforceselectionandseverancepay.aspx.

			———. “Severance Waiver and General Release: Group Layoffs of Employees Age 40 and Over (OWBPA Compliant) (sample).” https://www.shrm.org/resourcesandtools/tools-and-samples/hr-forms/pages/waiverexitincentive.aspx.

			———. “Transfer: Internal Transfer/Reassignment Request (sample).” https://www.shrm.org/resourcesandtools/tools-and-samples/hr-forms/pages/transfer_internaltransferreassignmentrequest.aspx.

			———. “Turnover Cost Calculation Spreadsheet.” https://www.shrm.org/resourcesandtools/tools-and-samples/hr-forms/pages/turnover-cost-calculation-spreadsheet.aspx.

			———. “Turnover Rate Calculation Spreadsheet.” https://www.shrm.org/resourcesandtools/tools-and-samples/hr-forms/pages/turnover-rate-calculation-spreadsheet.aspx.

			———. “What Is the Difference between a Furlough, a Layoff, and a Reduction in Force? (HR Q&As).” https://www.shrm.org/resourcesandtools/tools-and-samples/hr-qa/pages/furloughlayoffreductioninforce.aspx.

			———. “What You Need to Know about COBRA Continuation Coverage.” https://www.shrm.org/resourcesandtools/tools-and-samples/need-to-know/pages/what-you-need-to-know-about-cobra-continuation-coverage.aspx.

			———. “Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act of 1988.” https://www.shrm.org/hr-today/public-policy/hr-public-policy-issues/pages/workeradjustmentandretrainingnotificationactof1988.aspx.

			Smith, Allen. “The Fairer Layoff Series.” SHRM Online, November 12, 2019. https://www.shrm.org/ResourcesAndTools/legal-and-compliance/employment-law/Pages/layoffs-selection-criteria.aspx.

			U.S. Department of Labor. “Continuation of Health Coverage (COBRA).” https://www.dol.gov/general/topic/health-plans/cobra.

			U.S. Department of Labor, Employee Benefits Security Administration. An Employer’s Guide to Group Health Continuation Coverage Under COBRA, September 2014. https://www.shrm.org/resourcesandtools/legal-and-compliance/employment-law/documents/cobraemployer.pdf.

			Conclusion

			Lauby, Sharlyn. “Media Literacy Is a Business Competency.” HR Bartender (blog), September 5, 2019. https://www.hrbartender.com/2019/career-development/media-literacy/.

			———. “Navigating Digital Information: 3 Questions to Ask.” HR Bartender (blog), April 19, 2020. https://www.hrbartender.com/2020/career-development/navigating-digital-information/.





OceanofPDF.com





Index




		 			A

			AARP (American Association of Retired Persons) 304

			abilities

			action plans and 131

			concerns about 53

			absenteeism 118

			accommodations

			family requests 185

			reasonable 62

			required 62

			accountability xiii, 25, 33

			accounting implications when designing EVP 182

			acquisitions. See also talent acquisition

			costs of customer 10

			actions

			disciplinary 142

			plans and abilities 132

			setting examples through 24

			activities

			acceptable amount of 294

			career planning 244

			for development 210

			hands-on 213

			intervention 215

			learning 210, 216

			legislation impacting 285

			non-value-added 29

			in offboarding 320

			onboarding 92

			preboarding 90

			replacement planning 254

			for SMEs 252

			strategic plan 3

			team building 214

			ADA. See Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA)

			addiction resources 148

			ADDIE (analyze, design, develop, implement, evaulate) model 217

			assessment 217

			design 217

			development 218

			evaluation 218

			implementation 218

			ADEA (Age Discrimination in Employment Act) 62, 311

			adult learning 215

			Age Discrimination in Employment Act (ADEA) 62, 311

			agencies 26

			aggregation 237

			agreements

			data sharing 25

			trade 24

			AI (artificial intelligence) 67

			alignment

			between brand and experience 46

			business compliance and 209

			Allen, Michael 220

			allyship 22

			Almeda, Dave 167

			American Association of Retired Persons (AARP) 304

			American National Standards Institute (ANSI) 79

			Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) 62, 144

			addiction and 148

			analyses

			force field 15

			of gaps 8, 15, 222

			PESTLE 12

			of staff 7

			SWOT 13

			of workforce 7

			analytics 288

			descriptive 288

			diagnostic 289

			predictive 289

			prescriptive 289

			ANSI (American National Standards Institute) 79

			API (application programming interface) 71

			apoliticism 23

			applicants

			candidates vs. 55

			customers as 46

			applicant tracking systems (ATS) 65

			application programming interface (API) 71

			applications

			integrated 28

			of learning 221

			via mobile recruiting 66

			qualified 51

			appraisals 124

			bias in 136

			appreciative inquiries 14

			apprenticeships xiii, 270

			approvers 35

			aptitude xii

			artificial intelligence (AI) 67

			assessments

			pre-employment 56

			tools and 262

			assignments. See also global assignments

			international 267

			managing 267

			assimilation 95

			Association for Talent Development (ATD) 115, 260

			ATS (applicant tracking systems) 65

			attendance 138

			automated scheduling software 71

			B

			background checks

			reasons for 74

			types of 74

			banking technologies 208

			BARS (Behaviorally Anchored Rating Scales) 138

			basis

			periodic usage 28

			subscription 28

			BASK (Body of Applied Skills and Knowledge) 119

			beginner’s mindset 250

			behavior

			changing of 141

			expected 140

			impact of 140

			interview questions regarding 60

			behavioral competencies 211

			Behaviorally Anchored Rating Scales (BARS) 138

			belonging 95

			benefits xiii, 4

			categories of 177

			childcare 177

			education-related 178

			eldercare 177

			of an ERP 28

			extended 178

			legacy of 198

			legal implications of 198

			plans for 174

			retirement 177

			well-being 177

			Berlitz International 269

			Beti (employee-driven payroll experience) 319

			biases 24

			contrast 135

			definition of 135

			examples of common 135

			halo 135

			horn 135

			leniency 135

			in performance appraisals 136

			proximity 136

			in ratings 138

			recency 136

			Black Lives Matter (BLM) 22

			blended learning 286

			BLM (Black Lives Matter) 22

			blogs 320

			Bloom, Benjamin 220

			Body of Applied Skills and Knowledge (BASK) 119

			bonuses

			discretionary 176

			employee referral xi

			retention 176

			boomerang employees 304

			brands

			attraction to 46

			consumer 46

			employment 45, 46

			breaches, data 25

			brevity 232

			bring your own device (BYOD) 108

			considerations for 108

			broadbanding 177

			buddy programs 110

			businesses

			measurements of 210

			outcomes from 38

			traditions in 268

			business metrics 209. See also metrics

			customer complaints 209

			employee turnover 209

			manufacturing defects 209

			sales revenue 209

			buy-ins 227

			BYOD (bring your own device) 108

			C

			candidate experience 46

			employment brand and 46

			surveys of 105

			candidates

			applicants vs. 55

			ideal 55

			outside connections for 51

			persona of 55

			qualified 51

			career development 214

			as currencies 163

			career ladders 249

			career management 214

			career paths 273

			career planning

			coaching for 245

			components of 214

			definition of 244

			guidance for 245

			responsibility for 246

			skills for 246

			tools for 245

			careers

			dual paths 249

			encore 275

			mobile responsive websites 66

			career stages 245

			early 273

			late 275

			mid- 274

			categories for well-being 186

			CBA (collective bargaining agreement) 98

			challenges

			of an ERP 30

			in talent management xi

			change 225

			management of 224

			check-ins 105

			childcare 177

			child labor 26

			Civil Rights Act 61

			cloud 28

			coaching 210, 256

			best situations for 260

			for career planning 245

			for employees 253

			informal 142

			COBRA (Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act) 312

			codes of conduct 130

			COLAs (cost-of-living adjustments) 177, 196

			collective bargaining agreement (CBA) 98

			commission

			salary plus 176

			straight 176

			communications

			in company culture 113

			mandatory employee 63

			performance management and 134

			community building 115

			company culture 112

			commitment 113

			communication 113

			as currencies 162

			drivers of 170

			listening 113

			recognition 113

			reinforcement 113

			takeaways for 112

			teamwork 113

			compa-ratio 204

			compensation xiii, 4

			benefits and 162

			direct 176

			forms of 176

			impacts on 262

			nonfinancial 177

			role of location in 195

			strategies for 177

			variable pay 176

			competencies 4, 211

			behavioral 211

			for SMEs 251

			technical vs. behavioral 211

			compliance 24, 63

			notices of 64

			compressed work weeks 185

			concepts, legal 24

			concerns

			environmental 10

			in performance coaching 140

			social 10

			consequences 141

			considerations 2

			cultural 267

			for international roles and responsibilities 267

			for internship programs 270

			legal 24, 143

			in performance management (PM) 143

			for resignations 301

			for skills gaps 272

			for technology 149

			consistency 138

			Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act (COBRA) 312

			consultants 35, 58

			consumer brand 46

			content

			curation of 236

			of learning and development 231

			snackable 232

			contractual arrangements 24

			contrast bias 135

			conversations

			breaking into discussions 127

			outline for 140

			about performance 131

			for performance coaching 140

			about performance review 127

			preparation for 142

			about remote-work 190

			SMART 19

			for subject matter experts (SMEs) 251

			corporate social responsibility (CSR) 10

			cost-of-living adjustments (COLAs) 177, 196

			cost-per-hire (CPH) xi, 58

			average 59

			goal of calculating 79

			standard calculation for 79

			costs

			of absenteeism 118

			as area of measurement 203

			consumer 196

			ERP 30

			external recruiting 79

			incremental 29

			internal recruiting 79

			of living 196

			of recruiting 59, 294

			of replacement 325

			of separation 325

			of turnover 88, 325

			of vacancy 325

			counsel 33

			covering 95

			coworker violence 145

			CPH. See cost-per-hire (CPH)

			CrashCourse Media Literacy 332

			credit checks 74

			criminal background checks 74

			critical evaluation 7

			CSR (corporate social responsibility) 10

			Culbert, Samuel A. 152

			cultural training 9

			culture camps 112, 114

			cultures 9

			of company 112

			considerations for 267

			ethnocentrism and 11

			geocentrism and 12

			organizational 125

			polycentrism and 11

			regiocentrism and 12

			SWOT analysis and 14

			curation 236

			aggregation vs. 237

			currencies

			career development 163

			company culture 162

			compensation and benefits 162

			marketing of 164

			monetary and nonmonetary 165

			relationships 163

			types of 162

			value of 164

			work environment 163

			customers

			acquisition costs 10

			as applicants 46

			ideal 55

			lifetime value of 10

			personas of 55

			violence by 145

			D

			data

			breaches 65

			collection of 7

			management 25

			privacy of 65

			productivity and 104

			security of 194

			sharing agreements 25

			storage 28

			transfers 25

			type of 25

			workforce management and 104

			deadlines 21

			debriefs 36, 37

			with hiring managers 50

			decisions 318

			delegation 133

			demotions 298

			departmental collaboration 46

			deployment methods 27

			descriptive analytics 288

			design, iterative 220

			development 2

			activities for 210

			exclusive opportunities for 248

			of goals 222

			iterative 220

			phase of 4

			plans of 148

			promotion vs. 177

			of skills 286

			terms in 211

			diagnostic analytics 289

			differentials 176

			direct compensation 176

			disciplinary policies 142

			discrimination

			age 62

			disabilities 62

			employment 61

			intentional 62

			laws regarding 62

			practices 61

			unintentional 62

			disparate impact 61

			disparate treatment 61

			diversity

			definition of 94

			in the workplace 23

			Doran, George T. 19

			downtime 214

			driving forces 17

			Drucker, Peter 139

			Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1988 147

			drugs

			legislation regarding 147

			testing policies 74, 148

			due diligence 31

			E

			EAP (Employee Assistance Program) 148, 177

			e-commerce 244

			education 57

			related benefits 178

			verification of 74

			EEOC (Equal Employment Opportunity Commission) 143

			EI (Emotional Intelligence) 214

			eldercare 177

			emergency preparedness 38

			Emotional Intelligence (EI) 214

			emotional quotient (EQ) 215

			Employee Assistance Program (EAP) 148, 177

			employee engagement xiii, 94

			drivers to 97

			onboarding and 96

			principles of 133

			Employee Net Promoter Score (eNPS) 119

			employee resource groups (ERGs) 114

			employee retention 288

			onboarding programs and 88

			employees

			average number of 323

			benefits for 177

			boomerang 304

			coaching of 253

			determining number of 322

			handouts for 63, 64

			impact on 246

			legal rights of 63

			life cycle of 105, 153

			notifications to 63

			ratings for 136

			referral programs for 59

			relations 4

			returning of 296

			rewards for 95

			self-service 191

			waivers for 311

			employee transitions 297. See also retirement; termination; transfers

			Employee Value Proposition (EVP) xiii, 46, 162

			accounting implications 182

			attraction under 183

			development of 164

			employee benefits in 177

			marketing of 164

			measuring 203

			resources on 205

			retention under 183

			technology and 190

			terms in 175

			employment

			decisions 61

			discrimination based on 61

			laws 61

			length of 59

			part-time 185

			standards for youth 26

			verification of 74

			employment-at-will 310

			employment brand 45

			candidate experience and 46

			consumer brand and 46

			Employment Practice Liability Insurance (EPLI) 98

			Employment Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) 189

			empowerment 133

			encore career 275

			engagement 91, 244

			drivers of 94

			eNPS (Employee Net Promoter Score) 119

			Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) 26

			benefits of 28

			challenges 30

			costs 30

			future of 31

			modernization of 30

			modern solutions 30

			multitenant solutions 30

			security 31

			tools 32

			environmental scans 7, 12

			environments, hostile 144

			EPLI (Employment Practice Liability Insurance) 98

			EPRG Model 11

			EQ (emotional quotient) 215

			Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) 143

			equality 95

			Equal Pay Act of 1963 189

			equity 231

			definition of 95

			equality vs. 95

			in learning and development 231

			organizational 24

			ERGs (employee resource groups) 114

			ERISA (Employment Retirement Income Security Act) 189

			ERP. See Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP)

			ethics

			code of conduct 130

			definition of 129

			pay and 129

			standards for 130

			ethnocentrism 11

			European Union (EU) 25

			evaluations 3, 36

			critical 7

			of learning 221

			levels of 238

			of program effectiveness 261

			events 124

			EVP. See Employee Value Proposition (EVP)

			exit interviews 308

			expatriates 266

			experiences 57

			of candidates 46

			learning activities based on 216

			measures of 261

			negative 46

			planning of 47

			thoughts and feelings of 105

			of users 150

			explicit knowledge 307

			external forces 16

			external information 7

			external sources 51

			F

			factors, PESTLE 12

			Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) 189

			families 264

			Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA) 63, 144, 189

			addiction and 148

			pregnancy and 144

			favoritism 138

			pregnancy and 143

			FCC (Federal Communications Commission) 73

			FDIC (Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation) 187

			Federal Communications Commission (FCC) 73

			Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) 187

			feedback 133

			approaches to handling 116

			asking for 128

			benefits of regular 124

			considerations for 106

			in the early career stage 273

			immediate 214

			peer-to-peer 282

			about performance 124, 259

			real-time 149

			result of 256

			solicitation of 106

			360 review 262

			timeliness of 256

			training for 128

			type of 262

			final paychecks 312

			final selections 53

			fiscal responsibility 38

			flexibility 156

			in hours 185

			jobs with 185

			microlearning and 233

			for organizations 245

			in scheduling 72

			work 185

			flextime 185

			FLSA (Fair Labor Standards Act) 189

			FMLA. See Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA)

			focus 4

			internal 7

			force-field analysis 15

			results of 17

			forces

			driving 16, 17

			equal 17

			external vs. internal 16

			relative strength of 16

			restraining 16, 17

			weakened 17

			forms, candidate evaluation 53

			formulation 2

			freelancing 58, 186, 296

			Frehse, John 162

			full-time equivalent (FTE) 322

			functions, business 25

			furlough 303

			G

			gamification 235

			gaps

			analysis of 8, 15, 222

			bridging 223

			in organizations 8

			in skills 272

			General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) 25, 65

			Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act (GINA) 99, 189

			geocentrism 11, 12

			geofencing 55

			Get Rid of the Performance Review! 152

			ghosting 90

			GINA (Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act) 99, 189

			global assignments 266

			considerations for 267

			globalization 10

			global mindsets 9

			global organizations 26

			global positioning system (GPS) 55

			Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 26

			goals

			alignment of 4

			big hairy audacious goal (BHAG) 125, 134

			for calculating CPH 79

			definition of 132

			development of 222

			for employee engagement 96

			for employee referral programs 58

			for employees 127

			identification of 16, 222

			of interviews 72

			of mentoring programs 261

			at the midcareer stage 274

			organizational xii, 2

			planning 2

			of project management 11

			review of 139

			setting of xiii, 2, 127, 139

			strategic xii

			of talent acquisition 44

			talent management xii

			update on 259

			GPS (global positioning system) 55

			GPS (growth, plan, support) process 152

			graphic rating scales 136. See also MBO (management by objectives)

			GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) 26

			growth, plan, support (GPS) process 152

			guidance 245

			H

			halo bias 135

			harassment. See sexual harassment

			HCM (human capital management) 313

			Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) 99

			helpers 35

			hierarchy of needs 96

			high-performing (HiPer) employees 134, 248

			identification of 276

			qualities of 276

			high-potential (HiPo) employees 134, 248

			qualities of 278

			HIPAA (Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act) 99

			HiPer employees. See high-performing (HiPer) employees

			HiPo employees. See high-potential (HiPo) employees

			hiring

			debriefs with managers 50

			metric quality of 82

			quality employees 59

			spent resources in 88

			steps in process 51

			structure of process 47

			in talent acquisition 45

			timeline for 82

			Hoffman, Samuel 198

			horn bias 135

			hostile work environment 144

			HRdirect 64

			HRIS (Human Resource Information Systems) 313

			HRMS (Human Resource Management System) 27, 314

			human capital management (HCM) 313

			Human Resource Information Systems (HRIS) 313

			Human Resource Management System (HRMS) 27, 314

			hybrid learning 286

			hypotheses 4

			I

			IIHR (Institute for International Human Resources) 269

			ILO (International Labour Organization) 26

			impact

			on compensation 262

			disparate 61

			on employee careers 246

			far-reaching 25

			by managers 246

			organizational 261

			on organizations 11

			implementation 3

			plans for 102, 150

			implicit knowledge 307

			incentives 248

			bonuses 176

			commissions 176

			pay 176

			stock awards 176

			inclusion 94

			individual rights 25

			inequity 138

			informal coaching 142

			information

			external 7

			gathering of 2

			learning and 236

			inpatriates 266

			Institute for International Human Resources (IIHR) 269

			instructional systems design (ISD) 217

			insurances

			accidental death & dismemberment (AD&D) 177

			health-related 177

			life 177

			workers’ compensation 178

			intake

			interview guidance 52

			interview questions 47

			meetings 47, 50

			intellectual property 25

			intent 4

			internal forces 16

			internal mobility 326

			internal sources 51

			International Assignee Research Project 269

			International Labour Organization (ILO) 26

			international laws 25

			International Trade Administration 25

			internet 73

			Internet of Things (IoT) 31

			organizations 32

			internships xiii, 270

			considerations for 270

			interventions

			activities for 215

			of performance 132

			interviews

			additional 52

			exit 308

			goals of 72

			job analysis and 57

			one-sheets about 73

			panel 50

			questions for 60

			scheduling of 71

			screening 52

			stay 115, 128

			video 72

			investments 25

			into employee training 240

			involuntary termination 299

			involuntary turnover 322

			IoT (Internet of Things) 31, 32

			ISD (instructional systems design) 217

			issues 23

			iterative design 220

			iterative development 220

			J

			job analysis 56

			interviews in 57

			observations in 57

			steps of 57

			surveys in 57

			job market 296

			job offers

			declined 83

			extending the 53

			welcome messages and 53

			jobs

			bidding 51

			descriptions of 56

			posting of 51

			preview 55

			requirements for 57

			requisition of 54

			job sharing 186

			K

			key performance indicators (KPIs) 10

			Kirkpatrick, Donald 238

			Kirkpatrick’s Levels of Evaluation 238

			KM. See knowledge management (KM)

			knowledge 131. See also knowledge management (KM)

			explicit 307

			implicit 307

			learning and 209

			loss of 294

			tacit 307

			knowledge management (KM) 252, 306

			in the late career stage 275

			knowledge, skills, and abilities (KSAs) 6, 131

			team development and 214

			Kotter, John 227

			KPIs (key performance indicators) 10

			Krajewski, Henryk 278

			Kraszewski, Jennifer 191

			KSAs. See knowledge, skills, and abilities (KSAs)

			Kutik, Bill 313

			L

			labor laws 268

			regarding children 26

			required postings 62

			labor needs 5

			lateral moves 298

			Lauby, Keith 264

			laws. See also labor laws

			international 25

			pregnancy protection 144

			LCMS (learning content management system) 235

			leadership 9, 41

			in the midcareer stage 274

			leaders vs. managers 9

			lead, lag, or match 182

			learning xii, xiii, 4

			activities for 210, 216

			for adults 215

			analyzing 221

			applying 221

			blended 286

			business metrics and 209

			content 231

			curation 237

			definition of 208, 212

			design principles xiii

			evaluating 221

			future events 211

			gamification 235

			hybrid 286

			information and 236

			knowledge and 209

			microlearning 232

			objectives of 220

			relevance of 216

			remembering 221

			resources for 240

			self-directed 213, 216

			social learning 233

			via social media 234

			as solutions 208

			technology and 208

			terms in 211

			timeliness of 216

			understanding 221

			uses for technology in 232

			what’s in it for me (WIIFM) 216

			workplace 216

			learning content management system (LCMS) 235

			learning management systems (LMS) 236, 286

			leaves 178. See also Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA)

			reasons for 295

			legal concepts 98

			legal considerations

			employment-at-will 310

			for talent acquisition 61

			WARN Act 310

			legal notifications 63

			legislation, drug 147

			LEGO Group 146

			leniency bias 135

			Lewin, Kurt 224

			life cycles 153

			LMS (learning management system) 236

			local nationals 266

			location-based pay 194

			Lucas, Suzanne 264

			M

			management 9

			benefits of 249

			futures in 248

			of risks 146

			subject matter experts (SMEs) or 253

			management by objectives (MBO) 139

			manager, owner, consultant, helper, approver (MOCHA) 34

			managers 34

			impact of 246

			leaders vs. 9

			market

			lagging the 182

			leading the 182

			matching the 182

			marketing

			recruitment and 54

			traditional techniques in 54

			Martin, Gabriel Dominguez 262

			Maslow, Abraham 96

			massive open online courses (MOOCs) 234

			mass layoff 311

			Materials Resource Planning (MRP) 27

			MBO (management by objectives) 139

			measurements 36

			of business 210

			cost of 203

			of EVPs 203

			of performance 156

			popularity 203

			productivity as 117

			quality of hire 82, 120

			as signs of success 20

			sourcing vs. 82

			against standards 125

			for talent acquisition 82, 84

			time-to-fill 82

			utilization 203

			media literacy 332

			meetings

			formats of 256

			intake 47, 50

			at the midcareer stage 274

			one-on-one 256

			recruiting strategy 47

			mentoring 260

			best situations for 260

			programs 260

			subject matter experts (SMEs) and 260

			methods, internal sourcing 51

			metrics. See also business metrics

			compra-ratio 204

			cost-per-hire xi

			of effectiveness xv

			microlearning 232

			mindsets

			beginner’s 250

			global 9

			missions 9

			mission, vision, and values (M-V-V) 6, 8

			mitigation strategies 146

			mobile recruiting 66

			applications in 66

			MOCHA (manager, owner, consultant, helper, approver) 34

			models

			ADDIE 217

			Bloom’s taxonomy 221

			change management 224

			for designing programs 215

			Kirkpatrick’s Levels of Evaluation 239

			for learning and development 215

			PAPA 146

			for planning 11

			quarterly check-in 153

			Successive Approximations Model (SAM) 220

			tools and 11

			MOOCs (massive open online courses) 234

			motivation 21

			MRP (Materials Resource Planning) 27

			multirater programs 262

			M-V-V (mission, vision, and values) 6, 8

			N

			nationals

			local 266

			third-country (TCNs) 266

			National Telecommunications and Information Administration 190

			needs

			labor 5

			meeting of 96

			negotiations, offer 53

			Net Promoter Score (NPS) 119

			Neuberger, Mark 300

			nine-box grid 284

			nonfinancial offerings 178

			notices 311

			NPS (Net Promoter Score) 119

			O

			objectives

			A-B-C-D xi

			definition of 132

			of learning 220

			setting 139

			observations 57

			Occupational Safety and Health Act (OSH Act) 98

			Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) 98

			OD (organizational development) 215

			offboarding 302

			activities in 320

			technologies for 319

			offerings, nonfinancial 178

			offer negotiations 53

			offshoring 10

			OJT (on-the-job training) 213

			Older Workers Benefit Protection Act (OWBPA) 62, 311

			onboarding xii, 88. See also preboarding; offboarding; orientation

			activities 92

			buddy programs in 110

			components to 88, 97

			core themes in 92

			definition of 88

			employee engagement and 96

			employee retention and 88

			engagement outcomes from 93

			exposure 92

			informal learning in 111

			integrating solutions in 100

			length of 91

			Maslow’s theory in 96

			process of 91

			programs for 88

			resources regarding 121

			sharing knowledge during 252

			solutions 320

			in talent acquisition 45

			technologies 99, 102, 319

			training 92

			unitasker 320

			one-on-one meetings 256

			one-sheets 73

			online profiles 66

			onshoring 10

			on-the-job training (OJT) 213

			operational plans 2, 8

			opinion surveys 105

			opportunism 4

			opportunities

			economy of 4

			identification of 7

			for learning xiii

			for personal growth 175

			for procurement 25

			organizational development (OD) 215

			organizations

			equity in 24

			gaps in 8

			global 26

			goals of 2

			impact of 261

			impact on 3, 11

			internal structure of 11

			IoT 32

			risks for 146

			visions of 8

			orientation

			completion percentage 117

			distributed communications at 63

			programs 91

			OSH Act (Occupational Safety and Health Act) 98

			OSHA (Occupational Safety and Health Administration) 98

			outcomes 133

			outsourcing 10

			OWBPA (Older Workers Benefit Protection Act) 62, 311

			owners 35

			P

			paid time off (PTO) 59

			EVP and 178

			social justice 166

			unlimited 179

			PAPA (park, adapt, prepare, and act) model 146

			parental leave 178

			park, adapt, prepare, and act (PAPA) model 146

			paths

			dual career 249

			technical 249

			pay. See also wages

			compression 184

			ethics and 129

			final paychecks 312

			incentive 176

			location-based 194

			manual checks 318

			performance nad 152

			variable 176

			Paycom 191, 319

			pay ranges

			changes in 184

			creation of 183

			green circled 184

			red circled 183

			payroll

			HR and 318

			related tasks 319

			technologies for 318

			people 38

			performance

			confidence in 141

			consistency of 127

			conversations about 131, 153

			in the early career stage 273

			feedback on 259

			impact of bias on 135

			intervention 132

			pay and 152

			quadrants for 154

			scales to evaluate 138

			standards for xiii

			performance appraisals 124

			bias in 136

			considerations for 127

			effectiveness of 127

			parties involved in 262

			performance coaching 140

			performance management (PM) xii

			approaches to 154

			common practices in 151

			communication and 134

			definition of 124

			effectiveness of 125

			legal considerations in 143

			performance reviews and 127

			as a process 125

			resources for 157

			terms in 129

			tips for successful 125

			performance measurement 156

			performance reviews

			elimination of 151

			formats for 136

			360 assessment vs. 262

			performance standards 130

			attendance 138

			perks 178

			low-cost xi

			no-cost xi

			personas 55

			perspectives

			global 9

			system 4

			vertical and horizontal 4

			PESTLE (political, economic, social, technological, legal, and environmental) 12

			phases

			development 2, 4

			evaluation 3

			formulation 2

			implementation 3

			iterative design 220

			iterative development 220

			preparation 220

			of strategic planning 2

			planet 38

			planning xii. See also strategic planning; workforce planning

			common practices in 33

			of goals 2

			models 11

			philosophies 11

			processes 41

			in talent acquisition 45

			technology and 26

			terms of 8

			theories 11

			plans

			for benefits 174

			for development 148

			development of 2

			external factors on 8

			for implementation 102, 150

			operational 2, 8

			of replacement 255

			roles in part of a 34

			SMART 8

			strategic xii, 3, 8

			for success 280

			workforce xii, 8

			workforce and strategic 41

			plant closing 311

			PM. See performance management (PM)

			PMI (Project Management Institute) 10

			policies

			disciplinary 142

			for drug testing 148

			for sexual harassment 145

			for technology 109

			for workplace violence 145

			political, economic, social, technological, legal, and environmental (PESTLE) 12

			polycentrism 11

			popularity 203

			Portal-to-Portal Act 189

			postings, labor law 62

			postpandemic workforce 198

			The Practice of Management 139

			preboarding 89

			predictive analytics 289

			pre-employment assessments 76

			pregnancy

			favoritism and 144

			FMLA and 144

			protection laws 144

			Pregnancy Discrimination Act of 1978 143

			preparation 220

			for conversations 141

			prescriptive analytics 289

			privacy 71

			processes 4, 125

			of goal-setting 133

			hiring 51

			legality of 25

			of onboarding 91

			order of 54

			performance management 125

			for planning 41

			for purchasing technology 149

			of recruitment 41

			request for proposal (RFP) 150

			systemic 7

			talent acquisition 54

			procurement opportunities 25

			product defect ratios 10

			productivity 29

			data and 104

			definition of 94

			financial well-being and 188

			importance of 94

			as measurements 117

			technologies and 108

			products

			cloud 28

			standards for 25

			profiles, online 66

			profits 10, 38

			programs

			apprenticeship 270

			evaluation of effectiveness 261

			measures of quality 261

			mentoring 260

			multirater 262

			for onboarding 88

			for orientation 91

			phased-retirement 296

			train-the-trainer 275

			progress

			follow-up and 141

			monitoring of 139

			tracking of 105

			project management 250

			goals of 11

			Project Management Institute (PMI) 10

			promotions 297

			proximity bias 136

			PTO. See paid time off (PTO)

			Q

			quality of hire 120

			questions

			behavioral interviewing 60

			closed-ended 60

			for intake interviews 47

			sample 48

			situational 60

			story from past 60

			video responses to 72

			quid pro quo 144

			R

			RACI (responsible, accountable, consult, inform) 33

			radical candor 250

			rates

			of internal mobility 326

			of turnover 322

			year-to-date (YTD) 324

			ratings bias 138

			ratings, subjective 138

			ratios

			benefit-cost 238

			product defect 10

			RDBMS (relational database management system) 28

			realistic job preview 55

			recency bias 136

			recognition 96

			in company culture 113

			recruiting process outsourcing (RPO) 54

			recruitment. See also mobile recruiting

			costs of 59

			expenses 294

			external costs 79

			financial well-being and 188

			internal costs 79

			marketing 54

			metrics in 82

			process of 41

			strategy meetings 47

			technology in 65

			recruitment methods

			borrowing 58

			bots 58

			building 58

			buying 57

			reduction in force (RIF) 303

			reference checks 75

			referrals

			bonus for xi

			employee referrals 59

			refreezing 224, 226

			regiocentrism 11, 12

			regulation areas 25

			rehires 305

			relational database management system (RDBMS) 28

			relationships

			building working 92

			as currencies 163

			interpersonal 214

			management of 215

			manager/employee 53

			positive work 163

			violence in personal 145

			reliability 56, 60

			relocation 263

			repatriation 269

			tips for 269

			replacement

			costs of 325

			planning 254

			request for proposal (RFP) 150

			requirements

			drug-testing 147

			federal 147

			for technology platforms 150

			requisition 82

			of jobs 54

			resignation 301

			reskilling xiii, xv, 244, 263

			resources 40

			for addiction 148

			on EVPs 205

			guides xi

			HR blogs 320

			on learning and development 240

			on performance management (PM) 157

			relocation-related 263

			on succession planning 290

			working with limited 114

			responsibilities 33

			fiscal 38

			global 267

			responsible, accountable, consult, inform (RACI) 33

			restraining forces 17

			retention 288, 298

			financial well-being and 188

			strategies 258

			turnover vs. 298

			retirement 303

			benefits for 177

			phased programs 296

			phased strategies 296

			transitions and 296

			return on investment (ROI) 29, 58, 238

			revenue 10

			reviews, 360-degree 148

			rewards 95

			beneficial 175

			developmental 175

			monetary 175

			RFP (request for proposal) 150

			RIF (reduction in force) 303

			rights

			access 25

			individual 25

			portability 25

			risk management 146

			challenges in 146

			risks

			identification of 7

			organizational 146

			of teaching 214

			ROI (return on investment) 29, 58, 238

			roles

			as part of a project plan 34

			clarification of 214

			RPO (recruiting process outsourcing) 54

			S

			SaaS (Software-as-a-Service) 27

			sabbaticals 178

			salaries

			arrangements 176

			commission plus 176

			straight 176

			SAM (Successive Approximations Model) 220

			satisfaction surveys 105

			schedules 71

			Scott-Wears, Alicia 195

			screening interviews 52

			security 65

			self-awareness 215, 246

			self-directed learning 213

			self-evaluations 127

			self-management 215

			separation costs 325

			severance 178

			sexual harassment 144

			shortages 244

			SHRM (Society for Human Resource Management) xii

			definition of onboarding 88

			definition of talent acquisition 44

			seminars 47

			SHRM Foundation 110

			signals, cultural 9

			Simpson, Mark 151, 152

			situation, task, action, result. See STAR (situation, task, action, result)

			skills xii, 131

			for career planning 246

			workforce planning 7

			skills development 286

			skills gaps 272

			bridging 276

			considerations for 272

			smart phones 208

			SMART (specific, measurable, actionable, responsible, time-bound) 18, 139

			conversations using 19

			measurements in 20

			plans 8

			SMEs. See subject matter experts (SMEs)

			social awareness 215

			social learning 233

			social media 54, 190

			learning via 234

			social responsibility 10, 39

			Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM). See SHRM (Society for Human Resource Management)

			software. See also technologies

			agile development of 220

			due diligence on 31

			for performance management (PM) 148

			standards for 31

			Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) 27

			solutions

			integrating of 100

			learning as 209

			multitenant ERP 30

			for onboarding 320

			problem-solving and 247

			solicitation of 141

			training as 210

			Sommer, Brian 26

			sources

			internal vs. external 51

			testing for new 51

			sourcing 51

			effectiveness of 81

			efforts 52

			measurements vs. 82

			reports 81

			of talent 58

			special projects 252

			specific, measurable, actionable, responsible, time-bound. See SMART (specific, measurable, actionable, responsible, time-bound)

			sponsors 34

			staffing analyses 7

			stages

			refreeze 224

			unfreeze 224

			stakeholders 39

			standards

			for child labor 26

			consistent performance 125

			for ethics 129

			exceeding 134

			measuring against 125

			meeting 137

			performance 130

			for software 31

			for youth employment 26

			STAR (situation, task, action, result) 61

			action 61

			results 61

			situation 61

			task 61

			statements, making of 23

			states

			current 222

			ideal future 223

			statistics on ethical behavior 129

			stay interviews 115, 128, 257

			stock options 177

			straight commission 176

			straight salary 176

			strategic planning 2

			definition of 2

			phases of 2

			purpose of 2

			strategic thinking vs. 4

			workforce and 4

			strategic plans 8

			activities 3

			impact of 4

			strategic thinking

			elements of 4

			strategic planning vs. 4

			strategies

			for compensation 177

			for knowledge management (KM) 307

			for mobile recruiting 66

			phased-retirement 296

			for recruitment marketing 54

			for retention 258

			for talent management xii

			total-rewards 175

			strength, relative 16

			strengths, weaknesses, opportunities, and threats (SWOT) analysis 13

			stress management 209

			Stroud, Jim 194

			subject matter experts (SMEs) 33, 248, 249

			activities for 252

			competencies for 251

			conversations for 251

			management or 253

			mentoring 260

			qualities of 250

			specialists vs. 251

			succession planning xiii, 244, 253

			reluctance in 280

			Successive Approximations Model (SAM) 220

			support, entrepreneurial 22

			surveys 57

			of candidate experience 105

			of employees 105

			fatigue of 57

			methods 105

			of new hire check-ins 105

			opinion vs. satisfaction 105

			pros and cons of 106

			technology of 105

			suspensions 142

			sustainability 26

			efforts for 39

			SWOT (strengths, weaknesses, opportunities, and threats) analysis 13

			systemic processes 7

			systemic racism 21

			systems perspective 4

			systems, time and attendance 104

			T

			tablets 208

			tacit knowledge 307

			talent

			challenges in 112

			IoT market 32

			retention of xiii

			sourcing 58

			talent acquisition xii, 4

			common practices in 73

			definition of 44

			exposure to 44

			goals of 44

			legal considerations for 61

			metrics in 78, 84

			parts of 45

			planning 45

			process of 54

			resources on 84

			retaining in 44

			technology in 65

			tech stacks in 100

			terms in 54

			Talent Management (TM) 314

			challenges in xi

			components of xii

			definition of xii

			goals for xii

			strategies for xii

			takeaways from 329

			trends in 331

			talent pools 281

			tariffs 25

			tasks, day-to-day 2

			TBL (triple bottom line) 38

			TCNs (third-country nationals) 266

			TCO (total cost of ownership) 29

			teaching 214

			team building xiii, 214

			team development 214

			teamwork 113

			technical ability 250

			technologies 26

			checklist for implementation of 102

			considerations for 149

			decisions in 318

			employee self-service 191

			EVP and 190

			in learning 232

			learning and 208

			maintenance of 150

			mobile 104

			for offboarding 319

			for onboarding 99, 319

			online banking 208

			outdated 190

			for payroll 318

			planning and 26

			platform requirements 150

			policies for 108, 109

			productivity and 108

			purchasing process for 149

			reasons to use 190

			for recruitment 65

			security of 65

			of surveys 105

			in talent acquisition 65

			updates for 150

			wearable 104

			tech stacks 100

			telecommuting 185

			termination 143, 299

			involuntary 299

			voluntary 299

			third-country nationals (TCNs) 266

			Thomas, Ron 267

			360 assessments 262

			performance review vs. 262

			time and attendance systems 104

			daily operations and 104

			time management

			scenarios of 210

			training for 209

			time theft 104

			time-to-fill 82

			importance of 82

			time-to-productivity 82, 117

			time-to-start 82

			Title VII 61. See also sexual harassment

			Pregnancy Discrimination Act of 1978 143

			TM. See Talent Management (TM)

			tools xiii

			assessments and 262

			for career planning 245

			ERP 32

			models and 11

			nine-box grid 284

			topics, meeting 256

			total cost of ownership (TCO) 29

			total quality management (TQM) 41

			trade agreements 24

			traditions, business 268

			training

			anti-harassment 97

			anti-violence 97

			cultural 9

			definition of 212, 213

			investments into 240

			safety-skills 146

			as a solution 210

			stress-management 209

			for time management 209

			for workplace violence 145

			transfers 297. See also transitions

			transitions xiii, 294. See also termination

			demotions 298

			exit interviews 308

			lateral moves 298

			to new roles 294

			phased-retirement 297

			promotions 297

			reasons for 296

			reduction in force (RIF) 303

			resignation 301

			retention and 298

			retirement and 296, 303

			terms for 297

			transfers as 294, 297

			transparency 25

			treatment, disparate 61

			trends

			anticipation of 4

			economic 12

			in education 12

			geographic 12

			in talent management 331

			triple bottom line (TBL) 38

			turnovers 294

			costs of 88, 325

			rate of 322

			reasons for 294

			retention vs. 298

			voluntary vs. involuntary 322

			U

			UI (User Interface) 315

			unbanked 187

			understanding

			compliance and 24

			definition of 221

			unemployment 44

			unfreeze stage 224

			unitasker 320

			upskilling xiii, xv, 244, 263

			User Experience (UX) 150, 315

			User Interface (UI) 315

			utilization 203

			UX (User Experience) 150, 315

			V

			vacancy costs 325

			validation 21, 56, 60

			values 9

			customer lifetime 10

			perceptions of 261

			reviewing 21

			variable pay 176

			verbal warnings 142

			video calls 73

			violence

			coworker 145

			criminal intent 145

			customer/client 145

			personal relationship 145

			in the workplace 145

			visions, organizational 8

			voluntary termination 299

			voluntary turnover 321

			W

			wages. See also pay

			COLAs and 177

			definition of 176

			form of 176

			waivers 311

			warnings

			verbal 142

			written 142

			WARN (Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification) Act 310

			weight

			of driving forces 16

			of restraining forces 16

			well-being

			benefits for 177

			of career 186

			categories for 186

			of community 186

			definition of 186

			financial 186, 187

			physical 186

			social 186

			what’s in it for me (WIIFM) 216

			work environments. See also workplace

			as currencies 163

			hostile 144

			motivated 176

			Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification (WARN) Act 310

			workers’ compensation 178

			workforce

			analysis of 7

			attrition 30

			data management in the 104

			efficiencies in 29

			postpandemic 198

			productivity 29

			strategic planning and 4

			workforce plans 2, 8

			as an analysis 7

			definition of 5

			skills and 7

			working from home 19

			work-life balance xiii

			workload 21

			workplace. See also work environments

			diversity in the 23

			learning in the 216

			violence in the 145

			work weeks 185

			WorldatWork 179

			written warnings 142

			Y

			year-to-date (YTD) rate 324

			yields

			between orientation and completing training 81

			ratios of 80

			youth, employment of 26

			YTD (year-to-date) rate 324





OceanofPDF.com





About the Author


			Sharlyn Lauby, SHRM-SCP, is the author of the HR Bartender blog and president of ITM Group Inc., a Florida-based training and human resource consulting firm focused on helping companies retain and engage talent.

			Before starting ITM Group, Lauby was vice president of human resources for Right Management Consultants, one of the world’s largest organizational consulting firms. She has designed and implemented highly successful programs for employee retention, internal and external customer satisfaction, and leadership development.

			Media outlets and publications such as Reuters, the New York Times, ABC News, “Today,” Readers Digest, Men’s Health, Mashable, and the Wall Street Journal have sought out her expertise on topics related to human resources and the workplace. She is the author of Manager Onboarding: 5 Steps for Setting New Leaders Up for Success and The Recruiter’s Handbook: A Complete Guide for Sourcing, Selecting, and Engaging the Best Talent.

			Lauby launched HR Bartender to provide a “friendly place for everyday workplace issues.” The blog has been recognized as one of the top five business blogs read by HR professionals by the Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) and best business blog by the Stevie Awards.

			She believes strongly in giving to the community. She served by appointment from former Florida governor Jeb Bush on the Governor’s Alliance for the Employment of Citizens with Disabilities. She also served as colead of SHRM’s Ethics and Corporate Social Responsibility special expertise panel and previously as president of HR Florida, the statewide SHRM affiliate.

			Her personal goal in life is to find the best cheeseburger on the planet.





OceanofPDF.com





About SHRM Books


			SHRM Books develops and publishes insights, ideas, strategies, and solutions on the topics that matter most to human resource professionals, people managers, and students.

			The strength of our program lies in the expertise and thought leadership of our authors to educate, empower, elevate, and inspire readers around the world.

			Each year SHRM Books publishes new titles covering contemporary human resource management issues, as well as general workplace topics. With more than one hundred titles available in print, digital, and audio formats, SHRM’s books can be purchased through SHRMStore.org and a variety of book retailers.

			Learn more at SHRMBooks.org.





OceanofPDF.com





