Contents

About the Editors

About the Contributors

Foreword

Series Preface

Railway Children

1 The Role of Psychology in Leadership, Change, and Organization Development

1.1 Introduction

1.2 Part I: Leadership

1.3 Part II: Change

1.4 Part III: Organization Development

Part I Leadership

2 A Critical Review of Leadership Theory

2.1 Introduction

2.2 Leadership: A Critical Review of the Literature

2.3 Conclusion

3 Evidence-based Management and Leadership

3.1 Introduction

3.2 Origins of the evidence-based-practice idea

3.3 What is EBMgt?

3.4 Leadership and Differences between Leadership and Management

3.5 What Roles could Leaders Play in EBMgt?

3.6 How can Leaders become More Evidence-based?

3.7 What are the Costs and Benefits of becoming Evidence-based?

3.8 Future Research

3.9 Conclusion

4 Psychodynamic Issues in Organizational Leadership

4.1 The Vicissitudes of Leadership

4.2 Psychodynamic Concepts: An Overview

4.3 Bringing the Human Dimension Back into Organizations

4.4 Integrating Leadership Theories and the Psychodynamic Paradigm

4.5 A Psychodynamic Approach to Leadership Development

4.6 Organizational Coaching and Consultation

4.7 Psychodynamic Issues in Leadership: Future Challenges and Trends

4.8 Final Reflections

5 Do I Trust You to Lead the Way? Exploring Trust and Mistrust in Leader–Follower Relations

5.1 Introduction

5.2 The Foundational Role of Trust in Leader–Follower Relationships

5.3 Development of Trust in Leader–FollowerRelations: Antecedents

5.4 Trust in Leader–Follower Relations: Consequences

5.5 Trust As A Buffer: Mediation and Moderation of Trust Between Leadership and Follower Outcomes

5.6 Leaders Trusting Followers

5.7 Trust in Dynamic Leader–Follower Processes:the Transfer of Trust

5.8 Mistrust and Lack of Trust inLeader–Follower Relationships

5.9 Future Research Directions

5.10 Conclusion

6 Leader–Culture Fit: Aligning Leadership and Corporate Culture

6.1 Introduction

6.2 Organizational Culture and Leadership

6.3 Leader–Culture Fit

6.4 Research on Leader–Culture Fit

6.5 Conclusion

7 When Leaders are Bullies: Concepts, Antecedents, and Consequences

7.1 Introduction

7.2 Concepts in Use

7.3 Consequences of Exposure to Bullying and Abusive Supervision

7.4 Antecedents of Bullying and Abusive Supervision

7.5 Conclusion and Directions for Future Research

8 Leadership and Employee Well-being

8.1 Introduction

8.2 Leadership and Employee Stress/Psychosocial Risk

8.3 Leadership and Sickness Absence/Return to Work

8.4 Leadership and Employee Engagement

8.5 Leadership Development As An Employee-Well-Being Intervention

8.6 Conclusion

9 Transformational Leadership and Psychological Well-being: Effects on Followers and Leaders

9.1 Introduction

9.2 Well-being Outcomes: Burnout, Affect, and Mental Health

9.3 Effects of Transformational Leadership on Leader Stress and Psychological Well-being

9.4 Conclusion

10 Making the Mindful Leader: Cultivating Skills for Facing Adaptive Challenges

10.1 Introduction

10.2 Adaptive Leadership

10.3 What is Mindfulness?

10.4 How Mindfulness can Help Leaders

10.5 The first Problem: Mindlessness, Automaticity, and the Human Condition

10.6 The Second Problem: Mindlessness and the Drive to Survive

10.7 Mindfulness’ Potential Promise for Leaders

10.8 Understanding the Practice and Mechanisms of Mindfulness

10.9 Conclusion

11 The Future of Leadership

11.1 Introduction

11.2 Major Schools of Leadership

11.3 Emerging Pathways ForLeadership Theory and Research

11.4 Conclusion

Part II Change

12 The History and Current Status of Organizational and Systems Change

12.1 Historical Foundations

12.2 Distinctions, Debates, and Controversies

12.3 Prospectus: Major Theories of Change

12.4 Conclusion

13 Positive Psychology and Appreciative Inquiry: The Contribution of the Literature to an Understanding of the Nature and Process of Change in Organizations

13.1 Setting the Scene

13.2 Appreciative Inquiry

13.3 Positive Psychology

13.4 Understanding Change

13.5 The Change Process

13.6 What is Emerging for PP and AI in the Field of Organizational Change?

14 Participation and Organizational Commitment during Change: From Utopist to Realist Perspectives

14.1 Introduction

14.2 Participation and Organizational Commitment

14.3 Employee Participation in Organizational Processes

14.4 Research on Participation in Explicit-Change Settings

14.5 Employee Commitment in Organizational Processes

14.6 Research on Commitment in Explicit-Change Settings

14.7 Discussion and Directions for Further Research

14.8 Conclusion

15 Developmental Approaches for Enhancing Organizational Creativity and Innovation

15.1 Introduction

15.2 Perspective

15.3 Culture

15.4 Developing People

15.5 Structure

15.6 Developing Ideas

15.7 Managing Innovation

15.8 Improving Processes

15.9 Conclusion

16 Individual Readiness for Organizational Change

16.1 Introduction

16.2 Challenges to the Concept of Resistance to Change

16.3 Reconceptualizing Individuals’ Attitudes Towards Organizational Change

16.4 Concluding Remarks

17 Towards an Integration of Stage Theories of Planned Organizational Change

17.1 Introduction

17.2 Stage Theories of Change

17.3 Anti-stage Theories of Planned Organizational Change

17.4 Transtheoretical Model

17.5 The TTM and Organizational Change

18 Culture and Change in Developing Western Countries

18.1 Introduction to Culture and Change

18.2 Theories of organizational change

18.3 Organizational Change in Developing Countries

18.4 Country Profiles

18.5 The Model of Organizational Change in Developing Countries

18.6 The Special Case of Health Care

18.7 The Hospital: A Unique Organizational Environment

18.8 Conclusion

Part III Organizational Development

19 A Critical Review of Organization Development

19.1 Introduction

19.2 The 1940s and 1950s—Kurt Lewin, NTL,and the Origins of OD

19.3 The 1960s—OD Comes to Maturity

19.4 The 1970s and 1980s—Red Flags and Rivals

19.5 The 1990s and the 2000s—OD Lost and Found?

19.6 Conclusion: OD in the 21st Century—a Time for Cautious Optimism

20 The Application of Systems Theory to Organizational Diagnosis

20.1 Introduction

20.2 Readiness for Change: Dissatisfaction with the Status Quo

20.3 The Scientific Method: An Approach to Organizational Diagnosis

20.4 A Brief History of Systems Theory

20.5 Conclusions: STS Models and Organizational Diagnosis

21 Organizational-development Research Interventions: Perspectives from Action Research and Collaborative Management Research

21.1 Introduction

21.2 Foundations

21.3 Clustering OD interventions

21.4 Discussion and future research

21.5 Conclusions

Index





Wiley-Blackwell Handbooks in Organizational Psychology


Series Editor: Jonathan Passmore


The aim of the Wiley-Blackwell Handbooks in Organizational Psychology is to create a set of uniquely in-depth reviews of contemporary research, theory and practice across critical sub-domains of organizational psychology. Series titles will individually deliver the state-of-the-art in their discipline by putting the most important contemporary work at the ­fingertips of academics, researchers, students and practitioners. Over time, the series will grow in into a complete reference for those seeking to develop a comprehensive understanding of the field.





Books in the series


The Wiley-Blackwell Handbook of the Psychology of Coaching and Mentoring

Edited by Jonathan Passmore, David B. Peterson, and Teresa Freire



The Wiley-Blackwell Handbook of the Psychology of Leadership, Change, and Organizational Development

Edited by H. Skipton Leonard, Rachel Lewis, Arthur M. Freedman, and Jonathan Passmore





This edition first published 2013

© 2013 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd

Wiley-Blackwell is an imprint of John Wiley & Sons, formed by the merger of Wiley’s global Scientific, Technical and Medical business with Blackwell Publishing.

Registered Office

John Wiley & Sons, Ltd, The Atrium, Southern Gate, Chichester, West Sussex, PO19 8SQ, UK

Editorial Offices

350 Main Street, Malden, MA 02148-5020, USA

9600 Garsington Road, Oxford, OX4 2DQ, UK

The Atrium, Southern Gate, Chichester, West Sussex, PO19 8SQ, UK

For details of our global editorial offices, for customer services, and for information about how to apply for permission to reuse the copyright material in this book please see our website at www.wiley.com/wiley-blackwell.

The right of H. Skipton Leonard, Rachel Lewis, Arthur Freedman, and Jonathan Passmore to be identified as the authors of the editorial material in this work has been asserted in accordance with the UK Copyright, Designs and Patents Act 1988.

All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted, in any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording or otherwise, except as permitted by the UK Copyright, Designs and Patents Act 1988, without the prior permission of the publisher.

Wiley also publishes its books in a variety of electronic formats. Some content that appears in print may not be available in electronic books.

Designations used by companies to distinguish their products are often claimed as trademarks. All brand names and product names used in this book are trade names, service marks, trademarks or registered trademarks of their respective owners. The publisher is not associated with any product or vendor mentioned in this book. This publication is designed to provide accurate and authoritative information in regard to the subject matter covered. It is sold on the understanding that the publisher is not engaged in rendering professional services. If professional advice or other expert assistance is required, the services of a competent professional should be sought.

Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data

The Wiley-Blackwell Handbook of the Psychology of Leadership, Change and Organizational Development / edited by H. Skipton Leonard ... [et al.].

p. cm.

Includes index.

ISBN 978-1-119-97657-8 (cloth)

1. Leadership–Psychological aspects. 2. Organizational change. I. Leonard, H. Skipton. II. Title: Handbook of the psychology of leadership, change and organizational development.

BF637.L4W4695 2012

658.4′092019–dc23

2012029594

A catalogue record for this book is available from the British Library.

Cover image: White dominoes on a white background. © Steve Goodwin/iStockphoto

Cover design by www.cyandesign.co.uk





About the Editors


H. Skipton Leonard, PhD is on the faculty of the Carey Business School at Johns Hopkins University, where he lectures on leadership, strategic talent management, and organizational development. He is also a Professorial Lecturer in the School of Human and Organizational Learning at the George Washington University. Dr. Leonard is Principal and Managing Director for Learning Thru Action, a global consultancy that provides action based training and organizational development solutions. He is also an Emeritus member of the Board of Directors of the World Institute for Action Learning, a ­nonprofit training and certification organization with 17 affiliates in 6 continents around the global. A Fellow in the American Psychological Association, Dr Leonard is also a Past-President of the Society of Consulting Psychology and the founding editor of Consulting Psychology Journal.



Rachel Lewis, PhD, CPsychol is a registered Occupational Psychologist. She is a senior lecturer in Occupational Psychology at Kingston Business School as well as being a Director of Affinity Health at Work, a niche occupational health psychology consultancy. Her research focuses on the link between leadership and employee well-being. She ­combines her academic career with regular conference speaking, consultancy, and training, focusing on the links between leadership, management, and employee well-being.



Arthur M. Freedman, PhD is an emeritus member of the board of directors of the World Institute for Action Learning consulting organizational psychologist who has received many national and international awards for his contributions to the discipline. He is a founder and board member of the World Institute of Action Learning. He consults for public- and private-sector organizations around the globe. He is an Adjunct Professor at the Carey Business School, Johns Hopkins University, and a Visiting Scholar at the Center for Organizational Dynamics, University of Pennsylvania. He is a Fellow in Divisions 13 (Consulting Psychology) and 52 (International Psychology), American Psychological Association, and is a Past-President of the Society of Psychologists in Management.



Jonathan Passmore, DOccPsych is a chartered psychologist with five degrees and an ­international reputation for his work in coaching and leadership. He has wide business and consulting experience, having worked for PricewaterhouseCoopers and IBM Business Consulting and as a chief executive and company chairman. He has published 14 books on the themes of leadership, personal development, and change, including the Association for Coaching series of coaching titles, which he edited, and the best selling ‘Top Business Psychology Models’. He speaks widely at conferences across the world, from the USA to Europe and Asia. He has published over 20 peer reviews, 50 papers in practice-based journals, and some 20 book chapters. He was awarded the AC Global Coaching Award for his contribution to practice and research in 2010 and the British Psychology Society SGCP Research Award in 2012 for his research into the psychology of safety and driver learning. He currently works in consulting. Jonathan lives with his wife and two small children in the UK. In his spare time he keeps bees and likes to swim and walk. He can be contacted at jonathancpassmore@yahoo.co.uk





About the Contributors


Beverly Alimo-Metcalfe is Professor of Leadership at the University of Bradford, School of Management, UK and Emeritus Professor at the University of Leeds, UK. She and ­colleagues established Real World Group after undertaking one of the largest gender- and ethnic-inclusive studies of leadership. The company undertakes research, instrument development, and consultancy in leadership, culture, and diversity in the UK and abroad.



John Antonakis is Professor of Organizational Behaviour in the Faculty of Business and Economics of the University of Lausanne, Switzerland. Professor Antonakis’ research is currently focused on predictors and outcomes of leadership, leadership development, strategic leadership, and social cognition, as well as on causality. He has published over 35 book chapters and articles, including in journals such as in Science, The Leadership Quarterly, Journal of Operations Management, Human Relations, and Personality and Individual Differences, among others. He has co-edited two books: The Nature of Leadership, and Being There Even When You Are Not: Leading through Strategy, Structures, and Systems. Antonakis is Associate Editor of The Leadership Quarterly, and is on the ­editorial boards of the Academy of Management Review, Human Relations, Leadership, Organizational Psychology Review, Organizational Research Methods, and Journal of Management Studies.



Kara A. Arnold is an Associate Professor of Organizational Behaviour and Human Resource Management at the Faculty of Business Administration at Memorial University, NL, Canada. Her research focuses on transformational leadership, employee well being, and gender issues in management and has been published in a number of leading journals.



Dustin Bailey is a Research Assistant at Pro-Change Behavior Systems, Inc. He ­graduated from Providence College with a BA in Psychology and Spanish. Current areas of work include quality improvement of TTM interventions and research support for grant writing and publishing.



Michelle Bligh is Associate Professor at Claremont Graduate University, CA, USA. Her research interests include charismatic leadership, trust, and gender. Her work appears in Journal of Applied Psychology, Leadership, Leadership Quarterly, Organizational Behavior and Human Decision Processes, and she serves on the editorial review boards of The Leadership Quarterly and Leadership.



Bernard Burnes is Professor of Organisational Change and Head of the Organizational Psychology Group in the Manchester Business School at the University of Manchester. He is one of the leading international authorities on organizational change. He trained as an engineer, and holds a BA (Hons) in Economic and Social History and a PhD in Organisational Psychology. He is the author of over 90 articles and book chapters and some 21 books, including the best-selling Managing Change, 5th edition. His article “Kurt Lewin and the Planned Approach to Change: A Re-appraisal” (Journal of Management Studies, 41(6), 977–1002) received a Citation of Excellence as one of the top 50 management articles in the world in 2004 and has been reprinted twice. Bernard is the Editor of the Routledge book series Understanding Organisational Change, Joint Editor of the Routledge Companion to Organizational Change, and Associate Editor of the Journal of Change Management. His research and teaching cover organizational change in its ­broadest sense. In particular, he is concerned with the way in which different approaches to change promote or undermine the development of ethical behavior in organizations.



Gary N. Burns is an Assistant Professor at Wright State University, OH, USA and ­director of the Workplace Personality Project laboratory. Dr Burns’ published work focuses on ­understanding the intersection between individual differences and workplace ­environments and how these interact to affect both the worker and the workplace.



Stefan P. Cantore is a Senior Teaching Fellow in Organisational Behaviour and Human Resource Management at the University of Southampton Management School, UK. He also acts as a consultant in leadership and organizational development. His passion is to help leaders and organizations use conversation as a process for change. He is a qualified coach and has Masters Degrees in both People and Organisational Development and Business Administration. He is currently researching the nature and practice of conversational consulting as a Doctoral Candidate at Middlesex University, UK.



Michael Chaskalson is the founder and Chief Executive of Mindfulness Works Ltd. and author of The Mindful Workplace (Wiley-Blackwell, 2011). He is a member of the core team at the Centre for Mindfulness Research and Practice at Bangor University, UK, where he is an honorary lecturer in the School of Psychology.



Myungweon Choi is an Assistant Professor of Business Administration at Ajou University, South Korea. Her primary research focus is on organizational development and leadership development. Her research has appeared in Human Resource Management, Asia Pacific Journal of Human Resources, and Human Resource Development Review.



David Coghlan is Professor of Organization Development at the Business School, Trinity College Dublin, Ireland and is a Fellow of the College. He has published over 70 articles and book chapters in the area of organizational development and action research. His Doing Action Research in your Own Organization (1st edition 2000, 2nd edition 2005, 3rd edition 2010) is used throughout the world. Other recent books include Organizational Change and Strategy (Routledge, 2006) and Collaborative Strategic Improvement through Network Action Learning (Elgar, 2011). He co-edited, with Ram Shani, the four-­volume set The Fundamentals of Organization Development (Sage 2010). He is currently on the editorial board of: Journal of Applied Behavioral Science, Action Research, Action Learning Research & Practice, Systemic Practice and Action Research and the OD Practitioner.



Catherine E. Connelly is an Associate Professor of Organizational Behavior at the DeGroote School of Business at McMaster University. She serves on the editorial board of Human Relations and is the editor of the interdisciplinary studies division of the Canadian Journal of Administrative Studies.



David L. Cooperrider, PhD is Fairmount Minerals Professor of Social Entrepreneurship, Weatherhead School of Management, at Case Western Reserve University and Professor of Organizational Behavior and Faculty Director at the Center for Business as an Agent of World Benefit. He is past Chair of the National Academy of Management’s OD Division and has lectured and taught at Harvard, Stanford, University of Chicago, Katholieke University in Belgium, MIT, University of Michigan, Cambridge and others. David is founder and Chair of the Fowler Center for Sustainable Value. David’s interests include the theory and practice of appreciative inquiry as applied to corporate strategy, change leadership, and positive organizational scholarship.



David V. Day is the Woodside Professor of Leadership and Management at the University of Western Australia Business School. Prof. Day has published more than 75 journal articles, books, and book chapters, many pertaining to the core topics of his ­primary research interests in leadership and leadership development. He is the lead author oF the recently published book An Integrative Approach to Leader Development: Connecting Adult Development, Identity and Expertise (Routledge, 2009) and is presently editing The Oxford Handbook of Leadership and Organizations. Day serves as an Associate Editor of the Journal of Applied Psychology and is on the editorial boards of Human Performance, Journal of Management, Leadership Quarterly, Organizational Behavior and Human Decision Processes, Organizational Psychology Review, and Personnel Psychology. He is a Fellow of the American Psychological Association and the Society for Industrial and Organizational Psychology.



Daniel R. Denison is Professor of Management and Organization at IMD in Lausanne, Switzerland and CEO, Chairman, and Founding Partner of Denison Consulting, LLC. Dr Denison’s research, teaching, and consulting focus on organizational culture and its impact on the performance and effectiveness of organizations.



Emma Donaldson-Feilder is a Chartered Occupational Psychologist who specializes in helping organizations to achieve sustainable business performance through improvements in the well being and engagement of employees. She combines research and consultancy roles with writing and presenting on workplace well being.



Ståle Einarsen, PhD is Professor in Work and Organizational Psychology at the University of Bergen, Norway. He has published extensively on issues related to workplace bullying, leadership, whistleblowing, and innovation and creativity in organizations. Einarsen has acted as consultant to the Norwegian Government on issues related to ­workplace bullying.



Elizabeth Florent-Treacy is Associate Director, Research at the INSEAD Global Leadership Centre, Fontainebleau, France. Elizabeth takes a psychodynamic approach to the exploration of leadership in organizations and experiential learning in leadership-development executive education programs. She has co-authored or authored dozens of case studies, articles, working papers, and book chapters, and has co-authored six books on leadership-development, executive-coaching, and family-business topics.



Lars Glasø, PhD is Professor in Work and Organizational Psychology at the Norwegian Business School and visiting professor at the University of Bergen, Norway. Glasø is a licensed specialist in applied organizational psychology. He has published extensively on issues such as workplace bullying, leadership, and emotions in organizations.



Jeremy Hunter is Assistant Professor of Practice at the Peter F. Drucker School of Management at Claremont Graduate University, CA, USA. He teaches “The Executive Mind” and “The Practice of Self-Management,” a series of demanding mindfulness-based courses for executives that he developed over a decade ago. He has been voted Professor of the Year three times.



Manfred F.R. Kets de Vries is Raoul de Vitry d’Avaucourt Chair of Leadership Development at INSEAD, France, Singapore, and Abu Dhabi, a Founder of INSEAD’s Global Leadership Center, a Distinguished Professor of Leadership Development Research, ESMT, and the author, co-author, or editor of more than 35 books and 350 articles. His writing has been translated into 31 languages.



Jeffrey C. Kohles is an Associate Professor of Management and Organizational Behavior in the College of Business Administration, as well as Director and founding member of the Center for Leadership Innovation and Mentorship Building (CLIMB), at California State University San Marcos, CA, USA. His general research interests include leadership and followership.



Konstantin Korotov, PhD is Associate Professor and Director of the Center for Leadership Development Research at ESMT in Berlin, Germany. His research topics are leadership development, leadership coaching, careers, and executive education. Konstantin teaches in executive-education, EMBA, and MBA programs. He also coaches and consults globally.



Lindsey M. Kotrba is the Director of R&D at Denison Consulting. She is an active researcher on the topics of organizational culture and leadership and works directly with ­clients to conduct custom research related to their change efforts. Lindsey received her PhD in Industrial/Organizational Psychology from Wayne State University, MI, USA.



Rune Lines, Dr Oecon is a professor at the Department of Strategy and Leadership, Norwegian School of Economics (NHH). The focus of his research in recent years has been on the bases, forms, and consequences of employee reactions to organizational change. The purpose of this effort has been to contribute to more realistic models of how organizational members respond to change and to provide a more solid foundation for thinking about change leadership and decision-making. Within this area, he has addressed links between process, content, and leadership issues and behavioral, cognitive, and ­emotional reactions to change, including individual learning and knowledge-sharing. Other research interests include conceptions of truth as related to learning in ­organizations, wisdom in leadership, and the concepts and effects of culturally-adapted leadership.



Anthony Montgomery is an Assistant Professor in Work and Organizational Psychology at the University of Macedonia, Thessaloniki, Greece. His research concerns the nexus between work, health and education. At present, he is the Scientific Chair of a European Union FP7 project on organizational culture, job burnout, and quality of care. The project involves 10 European universities and has been funded for 54 months. His full academic profile can be found at www.anthonyjmontgomery.com.



Fehmidah Munir is a Chartered Health Psychologist and a senior lecturer at Loughborough University, UK. Her expertise is in managing common health problems at work, sickness absence, and return to work.



James O. Prochaska, PhD serves as Director of the Cancer Prevention Research Center and Professor of Psychology at the University of Rhode Island. He is one of the originators of the transtheoretical model of behavior change and the author of more than 300 papers and three books. He earned his PhD in Clinical Psychology at Wayne State University, MI, USA.



Janice M. Prochaska, PhD is the President and CEO of Pro-Change Behavior Systems, Inc., where she leads teams of experts in health behavior and organizational change. She earned her PhD in Social Work Administration and Policy from Boston College, MA, USA. Her work includes applying the transtheoretical model to organizational issues such as advancing female scientists, quality improvement, and collaborative service delivery.



Wendy E.A. Ruona is an Associate Professor of Human Resource & Organization Development at the University of Georgia, GA, USA. Her research focuses on the foundations of HRD (philosophical, theoretical, and theory-and-practice), organizational development, and strategic HRD/HR. Her research has appeared in Human Resource Management, Human Resource Development Quarterly, Advances in Developing Human Resources, and Human Resource Development Review.



Marcus Selart, Dr Philos is a professor at the Department of Strategy and Leadership, Norwegian School of Economics (NHH), Norway. His research is to a large extent focused on leadership and organizational decision-making at the levels of individuals, groups, and organizations, emphasizing mainly psychological perspectives. However, insights from economics, political science, and sociology are also encompassed. A recent interest of his is the role creative decision-making plays in organizations.



A.B. (Rami) Shani is a Professor of Organization Behavior and Development at the Orfalea College of Business, California Polytechnic State University, CA, USA. He is also a Research Professor at the School of Management, Politecnico di Milano, Milan, Italy. Rami held the position of Research Professor at the Stockholm School of Economics, Sweden, from 1991 to 2006. He received his PhD in Organizational Behavior from Case Western Reserve University in 1981. His research interests includes work and organization design, organizational change and development, collaborative research methodologies, learning in and by organizations, and sustainability and sustainable effectiveness. He is author, co-author, or co-editor of 20 books and over 80 articles. His most recent books include Organizing for Sustainable Effectiveness (Volume 1, edited with S. Mohrman, Emerald, 2011), Fundamentals of Organization Development (four volumes, edited with D. Coghlan, SAGE, 2010), Research in Organization Change and Development (Volumes 16, 17, 18, & 19, edited with W. Pasmore and R. Woodman, Emerald, 2008, 2009, 2010, & 2011), Creating Sustainable Work Systems (edited with P. Docherty and M. Kira, Routledge, 2009), Behavior in Organizations (in its 9th edition, co-authored with D. Chandler, J.F. Coget, and J. Lau, McGraw Hill-Irwin, 2009), The Handbook of Collaborative Management Research (edited with B. Pasmore, S. Mohrman, B. Stymne, and N. Adler, SAGE, 2008), Learning By Design: Building Sustainable Organizations (co-authored with P. Docherty, Blackwell, 2003), and Collaborative Research in Organizations: Foundations for Learning, Change and Theoretical Development (edited with N. Adler and B. Stymne, SAGE, 2004). He is co-editor of the new annual research series Organizing for Sustainable Effectiveness (with S. Mohrman, C. Worley, and P. Docherty, SAGE) and a co-editor of the upcoming second volume of Organizing for Sustainable Healthcare Delivery (with S. Mohrman, SAGE, 2012). Rami served on the OD&C board and as a chair of the OD&C division at the AOM. He is on the editorial board of five journals.



Anders Skogstad, PhD is Professor in Work and Organizational Psychology at the ­University of Bergen, Norway. He is a licensed specialist in organizational psychology and has worked extensively in developing systems for monitoring psychosocial factors at work. He has published extensively on role stressors, bullying at work, and destructive ­leadership.





Foreword


Skipton Leonard, Rachel Lewis, Arthur Freedman, and Jonathan Passmore—all known well-known internationally as scholar-practitioners—have pulled together a remarkably timely and insightful book, with a prescient cast of contributors, dealing with the most pressing perennial issues facing organizations: leadership, change, and organizational development. There are many books and countless articles on these topics. That is true. But this book is different. This book provides real insight based on real science, which gives the reader tangible and fundamental tools that they can put into action.

The list of contributors is impressive and their perspectives vary, which is the hallmark of true scholarship: to provide intellectual fodder for the formation of informed opinions. Debate and discussion are the grounds from which ideas flourish. As such, the book also provides fertile soil for future research in the area, which will catalyze a virtuous cycle of additional knowledge creation.

The chapters of this book, unlike those of most books, paint a landscape from a worldly perspective. This is not easy, but it is an imperative, as our world is ever shrinking in terms of connectivity. It is this very connectivity that oft results in intellectual imperialism: the pushing of ideas from one tradition on to those of another. In this book, however, the editors have thoughtfully captured the current thinking of worldly thought leaders.

I have been asked to write many forewords to books but have heretofore declined. I suppose I have declined in the past because of a lack of interest or simply because I felt too busy with other matters. This book, however, has snared my attention. It is a sound, thought-provoking read. I wish my few words here do justice to the efforts of those involved in the development of this treasure trove.


Craig L. Pearce, PhD

Craig L. Pearce has worked in more than a dozen countries, and written scores of ­articles on leadership and change management. He has two books to his credit—Shared Leadership and The Drucker Difference—with one more—entitled Share The Lead—­forthcoming from Stanford University Press.





Series Preface


Welcome to this first book in the Wiley Blackwell Industrial and Organizational Psychology series. The focus of this title is on leadership, change, and organizational development (OD).

These topics continue to be a source of interest and research for practitioners and I/O psychologists alike. Managers and leaders in organizations are fascinated by what they can do to enhance their ability to influence others and shape events. Likewise, researchers are curious about processes and factors which contribute to more effective leadership and change. In this, as in other titles in the series, we are seeking to share insights into these topics from research, with a particular focus on the current topics of interest to writers and researchers.

We believe this series differs in three significant ways from other titles in the field.

First, the focus is towards the researcher and student, as opposed to the practitioner, although scholar practitioners may also find this an interesting read. The aim of this book is to offer a comprehensive coverage of the main topics of inquiry within the domain, and in each of these to offer a comprehensive critical literature review. Each chapter is thus an attempt to gather together the key papers, book chapters, and ideas and to present these for the serious researcher, student, and academic as a starting point for research in the key topics of I/O psychology.

Second, while many books take a UK/European or a US/North American approach, with contributors drawn predominately from one continent or the other, in this series we have made strenuous efforts to create an international feel. For each title in the series we have drawn contributors from across the globe, and encouraged them to take an international as opposed to a national or regional focus. Such an approach creates challenges—challenges in terms of language and spelling, but also in the way ideas and concepts are applied in each region. We have encouraged our contributors to highlight such differences, and we encourage you as the reader to reflect on these in order to better understand how and why they have emerged and what implications they have for your research and practice.

Third, the chapters avoid offering a single perspective, based on the ideas of the contributor. Instead we have invited leading writers in the field to critically review the literature in their areas of expertise. The chapters thus offer a unique insight into the literature in each of these areas, with leading scholars sharing their interpretation of the literature in their area.

As series editor, I have invited contributors and editors to contribute their royalties to a charity. Given the international feel of the title, we selected an international charity—Railway Children. This means approximately 10% of the cover price has been donated to this charity.

With any publication of this kind there are errors; as editors we apologies for these in advance.


Jonathan Passmore

Series Editor, I/O Psychology





Railway Children


Railway Children supports children alone and at risk on the streets of India, East Africa, and the UK. Children migrate to the streets for many reasons, but once there they experience physical and sexual abuse, exploitation, drugs, and even death. We focus on early intervention, getting to the street kids before the street gets to them, and where possible we reunite them with their families and communities.

In addressing the issue we work through our three-step change agenda to:

Meet the immediate needs of children on the streets—we work with local organizations to provide shelter, education or vocational training, counseling, and, if possible, reintegration to family life.

Shift perception in the local context—we work with local stakeholders to ensure that street children are not viewed as commodities to be abused and exploited—but as ­children in need of care and protection.

Hold governments to account—if we are to see a long-term, sustainable change for the children with whom we work, we must influence key decision-makers, ensuring that provisions for safeguarding children are made within their policies and budgets.



Last year we reached over 27 000 children, 14 690 of these were in India, where we reunited 2820 with their families. In the UK we launched our research, “Off the Radar,” which revealed the experiences of over 100 of the most detached children in the UK. Many of these children received no intervention either before leaving home or once they were on the streets. We have made recommendations that include emergency refuge for under-16s and a wrap-round of other services, such as Misper schemes, local helplines, outreach, and family liaison to allow children and young people to access interventions in a variety of ways.

To find out more about our work, or to help us support more vulnerable children, please go to www.railwaychildren.org.uk or call 00 44 1270 757596.





1


The Role of Psychology in Leadership, Change, and Organization Development


H. Skipton Leonard, Rachel Lewis, Arthur M. Freedman, and Jonathan Passmore





1.1 Introduction


The three topics of this volume—leadership, change, and organization development (OD)—can be viewed as three separate and distinct organizational topics or they can be understood as three distinct lenses viewing a common psycho-organizational process. We begin the volume with a comprehensive treatment of leadership primarily because we view leadership as the fulcrum or crucible for any significant change in human behavior at the individual, team, or organizational level. Leaders must apply their understanding of how to effect change at behavioral, procedural, and structural levels in enacting leadership efforts. In many cases, these efforts are quite purposeful, planned, and conscious. In others, leadership behavior may stem from less-conscious understandings and forces.

The chapters in Part I: Leadership provide a comprehensive view of what we know and what we don’t know about leadership. Alimo-Metcalfe (Chapter 2) provides a comprehensive view of theories and measures of leadership. Day and Antonakis (Chapter 11) argue that the lack of construct definitions within the literature can be seen as a key criticism of leadership research. These authors suggest that “if the leadership field is to continue to evolve then how carefully we define our theoretical constructs is something that must be given much closer attention.”

Despite this lack of agreement on the central question of “What is leadership?”, there are a number of common threads that bind how all the authors in this volume see the construct and therefore the definition of leadership:

Leadership is a continuous process.

Leadership must be viewed within a context (both internally and externally to the organization).

Understanding and enhancing human behavior is key to leadership.

Leadership involves influence over, and responsibility for, individuals (both internally and externally to the organization).

Leadership both creates and addresses challenges at the strategic cultural level of an organization (but what those challenges are will be specific to the context).

Leadership is key to the success of an organization.



Organizations are unlikely to achieve their strategic objectives, survive, and thrive without the ability to change and adapt to the challenges, opportunities, and threats they face. Leaders take responsibility for achieving organizational objectives by acting in accordance with their understanding of how individuals, teams, and organizational systems change. Part II: Change provides the principles and strategies that leaders can use to achieve their objectives and agenda. The following issues regarding change are addressed in this part of the book:

Major models/strategies for change—Kurt Lewin’s contributions of organizational-change strategies and action-based research (Lewin, 1958); general systems theory (von Bertalanffy, 1969); chaos and complexity theories (see Stacey, 1992); Gregory Bateson’s (1972) contributions to change strategies, as expanded by Paul Watzlawick and his colleagues (1974); behavioral models of change such as the one offered by James and Janice Prochaska (Chapter 17); appreciative inquiry and positive psychology (Chapter 13); psychoanalytic models such as that proposed by Diamond (1993) and Kets de Vries & Miller (1984); and the neuroscience basis for understanding change (Lawrence, 2010).

Major controversies in the understanding of change—The differences between being the object and the agent of change; can organizations plan change or do they react to threat by changing?; top-down versus bottom-up change (all these issues are covered in Chapter 12).

Major issues in understanding change—Participation and commitment during change (Chapter 14); creativity and change (Chapter 15); culture and change (Chapter 18); and resistance to change (Chapter 16).



Our hope is that a broad and comprehensive treatment of the principles and strategies of change will improve leadership efforts within organizations.

The topic of Part III: Organization Development, provides a treatment of specific practices that can be employed by leaders in their efforts to bring about necessary change. The organizational-change methodologies identified as OD were inspired by Kurt Lewin’s interest in practical theory and action research (see Lewin, 1958). The fundamental theory, technology, values, and methods of OD have been discussed extensively elsewhere (see Bradford & Burke, 2005; Cummings & Worley, 2005; French et al., 2000; Gallos, 2006; McLean, 2006; Rothwell & Sullivan, 2005; Sorensen et al., 2001). However, the core values, theory, and methods of OD are not the focus of this part. The three chapters that make it up explore and discuss aspects of OD that are not easily accessible elsewhere: organizational diagnosis and the relationship between action research and collaborative management research.

Each of the parts of this book is discussed in more detail in the remainder of this chapter.





1.2 Part I: Leadership


The first part is made up of 10 chapters devoted to leadership and leadership theory. The aim of this part, taking a strongly psychological perspective towards the study of leadership, is to present a diverse range of current and future directions in research. Chapters have been authored by leading academics in each field and aim to widen and challenge traditional notions of leadership.





1.2.1 Chapter 2: A Critical Review of Leadership Theory—Beverly Alimo-Metcalfe


In this chapter, Alimo-Metcalfe aims to critically review the history of, and developments in, leadership theory. The author describes six stages in leadership theory, beginning with the trait theories of the 1930s and ending with current directions in leadership theory, including the so-called post-heroic models such as ethical and authentic leadership, the theory of distributed leadership, and engaging leadership. At each stage, Alimo-Metcalfe critically reviews both the theory and the research evidence supporting it.





1.2.2 Chapter 3: Evidenced-based Management and Leadership—Rob B. Briner and Neil D. Walshe


In this chapter, Briner and Walshe focus on evidence-based management. The chapter initially reviews the origins of the approach, before describing evidence for its utility and use in practice. It then moves on to a discussion of the challenges encountered in managing within an organization in an evidence-based way.





1.2.3 Chapter 4: Psychodynamic Issues in Organizational Leadership—Manfred F.R. Kets de Vries, Elizabeth Florent-Treacy, and Konstantin Korotovv


Kets de Vries, Florent-Treacy, and Korotov present the case for a psychodynamic approach to leadership. The authors argue that traditional leadership approaches are often framed within behaviorist or humanistic models, which focus on the tangible and measureable. The criticism is that, through this focus, the hidden dynamics that influence the behavior of groups and organizations are lost. The chapter illustrates how the psychodynamic approach can be used as a valuable framework for both research and practice in the area of leadership and management in organizations.





1.2.4 Chapter 5: Do I Trust You to Lead the Way?—Michelle C. Bligh and Jeffrey C. Kohles


This chapter explores trust and mistrust in leader–follower relations. Authors Bligh and Kohles provide a literature review of papers that highlight the importance of trust within this relationship, moving from a focus on the role of trust, to the antecedents and consequences of the relationship, to less-studied areas such as the transfer of trust from leaders to ­followers, trust repair, mistrust, and the question of when and why leaders trust followers. The chapter concludes with a look at the implications of the review for research and practice.





1.2.5 Chapter 6: Leader–Culture Fit—Gary N. Burns, Lindsey Kotrba, and Daniel Denison


In this chapter, Burns, Kotrba, and Denison explore the psychological fit of an organization’s culture and its leadership. The authors argue that although the fit between a leader’s behavior and the culture in which they work holds important implications for managers and organizations, little empirical evidence has been explored in this area. They describe research linking leadership and culture and review traditional fit literature, before ­proposing a future research agenda.





1.2.6 Chapter 7: When Leaders are Bullies—Ståle Einarsen, Anders Skogstad, and Lars Glasø


This chapter moves on to an exploration of the dark side of leadership, focusing on leaders who abuse and bully their direct followers. Einarsen, Skogstad, and Glaso present literature on the concept of abusive supervision and its causes and outcomes, arguing that it is a significant social problem that warrants greater research interest.

In Chapters 8–10, attention is turned towards the link between leadership and well-­being. Until relatively recently, although it was clearly understood by those in practice that leadership behavior was a key determinant of employee well-being, little research exploring the links between the two constructs had been undertaken. In the last 10 years, ­however, the situation has changed, with a proliferation of such research.





1.2.7 Chapter 8: Leadership and Employee Well-being—Emma Donaldson-Feilder, Fehmidah Munir, and Rachel Lewis


In this chapter, Donaldson-Feilder, Munir, and Lewis provide a review of recent literature focusing on three aspects of the leader–employee relationship: how leadership affects stress and exposure to hazards; the role of leadership in employee sickness absence and return to work; and the newly-emerging area of leadership and employee engagement.





1.2.8 Chapter 9: Transformational Leadership and Psychological Well-being—Kara A. Arnold and Catherine E. Connelly


Arnold and Connelly continue the review by presenting a critical analysis of research linking transformational leadership and employee psychological well-being. They also explore the relationship from a different viewpoint, looking at the effect of enacting transformational leadership behaviors on the psychological well-being of the leader themselves.





1.2.9 Chapter 10: Making the Mindful Leader—Jeremy Hunter and Michael Chaskalson


In this chapter, Hunter and Chaskalson present an argument that the practice of mindfulness, and therefore provision of mindfulness training to leaders, could be a powerful and effective way of helping leaders meet the adaptive and complex challenges of the current working world. Hunter and Chaskalson describe the issues facing leaders at present, in terms of both the external environment and internal cognitions, before using research evidence to hypothesize how mindfulness in this context might be beneficial. The chapter concludes by describing, from a cognitive perspective, how mindfulness works, and what the long-term impacts of this type of training might be for leaders.





1.2.10 Chapter 11: The Future of Leadership—David V. Day and John Antonakis


Finally, Day and Antonakis conclude Part I with a chapter on the future of leadership. They start with a brief overview of changes in leadership theory across the past decade, before describing four emerging pathways for leadership research: construct definition, process models, the development of leaders and leadership, and the use of stronger methodologies. Day and Antonakis then present the need for more research on the sociobiological, ­evolutionary, and diversity approaches to leadership. The chapter concludes by arguing that the future of leadership theory may not be in new constructs, but rather in better theory, more-rigorous research methods, and a focus on under-researched areas of literature.





1.3 Part II: Change


In this part, the contributing authors present and discuss what we currently know about the process of change, particularly in an organizational context: (1) how theorists and scholars, both contemporary and historical, have viewed and understood organizational change; (2) what principles are fundamental to change; (3) what general strategies for change have been derived from these principles; (4) how and to what degree research supports these strategies and models for organizational change; (5) and how organizational-change models and strategies have been and can be applied in cultures and economic situations (e.g. developing economies) that are dissimilar to the cultures and economies that many of our change strategies and models were based upon (e.g. US, European, and other developed economies).

We believe that a thorough understanding of the theories, principles, and strategies contained in the chapters in this part will help the practitioner choose specific leadership and OD and change (OD&C) strategies to utilize in efforts to change the structures, processes, or outcomes of organizational behavior. We hope that these models can be used by practitioners and scholars alike in their attempts to understand the process of organizational change. They will be useful in both the design of planned change and the evaluation and assessment of organizational-change efforts. Furthermore, when the organizational-change process doesn’t go as planned, as is usually the case, these models and strategies can be used to make necessary changes to implementation plans.





1.3.1 Chapter 12: The History and Current Status of Organizational- and Systems-change Theory—H. Skipton Leonard


In this chapter, Leonard presents a discussion of the many distinctions, debates, and controversies that have been offered in discussing organizational change. The majority of the chapter, however, is devoted to a comprehensive summary and review of the major schools of organizational change. This review begins with an extensive discussion of the models for organizational and social change that developed from Kurt Lewin’s research and his desire that social psychological theory be put to use in addressing and solving importance social and societal problems. Lewin’s insistence that “nothing is as practical as a good theory” (Marrow, 1972, p. 169) not only promoted practice-based research but also inspired and fostered a broad interest in group dynamics in the early 1950s, and later in OD&C. This chapter provides a comprehensive treatment of Lewin’s basic change models as well as of the Lewin-based research that underpins much of OD&C (e.g. data-based decision-making and feedback, participative management, attitude change, group cohesion and identification, and bases of social power). In addition, it provides discussion of other relevant approaches to change from other psychological perspectives: GST, Gregory Bateson’s group in Palo Alto, California, chaos and complexity theories, behavioral models of change, psychoanalytically-inspired organizational-change models, and neuroscience.





1.3.2 Chapter 13: Positive Psychology and Appreciative Inquiry—Stefan P. Cantore and David L. Cooperrider


This chapter provides an extensive and thorough discussion of the application of positive psychology (PP) and appreciative inquiry (AI) to the process of change in general and of organizational change in particular. These authors trace the shift in organizational-change thinking from “modernist” approaches to “organizational change” (i.e. assessment based on reason, rational thought, and mechanistic planning) to postmodern approaches that rely more on social construction and co-creation. They compare and contrast the PP and AI approaches, noting the many similarities in the view of effective change and some of the important distinctions between the two schools. For instance, both schools emphasize the importance of recognizing and building upon strengths rather than looking for and focusing on deficits and dysfunction. By focusing on the positive, both promote an optimistic approach to change, an appreciation of the capacity for change, and a desire for development in all people and organizations. However, PP is rooted in the values-neutral and evidence-based stance of behavioral science and change, while AI recognizes the value of all co-­constructed or designed change efforts without specific reliance on the rational analysis of outside experts. For AI, what is most important is the engagement and co-creation that comes from discussion and dialogue between all those who will be participants in the change process, promoting the life-giving forces that are inherent in any organization.





1.3.3 Chapter 14: Participation and Organizational Commitment during Change—Rune Lines and Marcus Selart


The notion that employee/manager participation in planning and decision-making leads to commitment or ownership and is therefore critical to the success of organizational change makes it a cornerstone of most contemporary organizational-change strategies. Although it is so central to modern OD&C and change-management strategies, the evidence to support this theory has been surprisingly thin. The authors of this chapter have provided a comprehensive summary of the research literature that demonstrates (thankfully, for most OD&D and change-management practitioners) that these assumptions are in fact based on strong evidence. In addition to providing evidence that there is a direct main-effect relationship between these variables, the authors also explore and report the many interaction effects with other relevant antecedent variables, such as experience with organizational decision-making, trust in leadership, job satisfaction, and organizational tolerance for risk-taking.





1.3.4 Chapter 15: Development Approaches to Enhancing Organizational Creativity and Innovation—Jane Henry


It is quite reasonable to associate creativity with change; by definition, organizational change requires a break from the status quo, which in turn requires members of the organization to look at their business, clients, and organizational opportunities in new and novel ways. In this chapter, Henry provides a comprehensive review of the many facets of organizational creativity and innovation, including:

Culture—Henry examines the impact of open culture on trust, employees’ sense of freedom and control over their work, and their resulting motivation and engagement in the organization’s destiny. She also addresses the frequent circumstance in which an organization’s rhetoric about culture and empowerment fails to match employee ­experience—when organizational management does not “walk the talk.”

Employee development and OD—In this respect, Henry notes the importance of creating organizational values, norms, and processes that promote employee empowerment, encourage continuous organizational learning, and foster self-organization rather than reliance upon the hierarchy to make decisions and take action.

Organizational structure—Henry also examines a number of structural approaches used to foster creativity and innovation, including the creation of matrix organizational structures, the separation or disconnection of special project teams from regular reporting structures, the use of specialized contractors, and the crossing of organizational boundaries by engagement in corporate partnerships and joint ventures.

Idea development—Henry describes a number of strategies for developing ideas. Scenario-planning can be used to envision and create solutions for a variety of potential future situations. Methods for encouraging all employees—not just managers and leaders—to participate in creating and innovating, as well as in evaluating new ideas, are also examined.

Innovation management—Henry examines the various stages of innovation and the way innovation is managed in business, industrial, and governmental sectors.

Process improvement—Incremental change through quality- and process-improvement programs (e.g. TQM, Six Sigma, and lean manufacturing) and radical change through such processes as business process reengineering are also addressed.





1.3.5 Chapter 16: Individual Readiness for Organizational Change—Myungweon Choi and Wendy E.A. Ruona


In this chapter, Choi and Ruona distinguish between readiness to change, which is based upon the degree to which reasonable concerns and objections to change are addressed, and resistance to change, which is seen as a protection of the status quo or a state of dynamic equilibrium. The authors forward the argument that addressing the readiness of the organization to change by addressing personal concerns about change and assuming that there is some reasonable basis for these concerns is often more effective than assuming that people have a natural dislike of change and will, in an almost knee-jerk fashion, resist any change, even if it is in their best interests, because it requires them to change habits and think differently. In this view, resistance to change is situationally-based and the wise and skillful leader, by taking individual concerns seriously, can elevate trust in and support for the change.





1.3.6 Chapter 17: Towards an Integration of Stage Theories of Planned Organizational Change—Janice M. Prochaska, James O. Prochaska, and Dustin Bailey


This chapter extends the use of the authors’ transtheortical model of behavioral change (TTM) from personal to organizational contexts. The authors also compare and contrast the TTM to other stage and anti-stage theories. A justification for using a model originally developed for individuals and for modifying it for use in organizational contexts is offered. The authors also address some of the criticisms that have been leveled against the use of the TTM with organizations.





1.3.7 Chapter 18: Culture and Change in Developing Western Countries—Anthony Montgomery


In this chapter, Montgomery addresses the intersection between culture and change with specific reference to the developing countries of Eastern Europe. This is an important analysis, since most theories of organizational change implicitly assume that the strategies and principles that have worked in the context of more advanced and developed countries will work in a similar fashion in countries that are less developed and are “emerging” as economies and societies. Montgomery examines the development of a number of Eastern European and Eurasian countries (e.g. Albania, Bulgaria, Croatia, Czech Republic, Greece, Hungary, Romania, Slovenia, and Turkey) from a variety of perspectives: (1) theories of change, (2) culture, and (3) politics. He also uses his special knowledge of the development of health care and hospital organizations in Eastern Europe and Eurasia to provide illustrative case examples of organizational change in this region.





1.4 Part III: Organization Development


Kurt Lewin inspired the creation of the NTL Institute for the Applied Behavioral Sciences in 1947 and was a co-creator of T-group (sensitivity-training) technology. He is also considered to be the grandfather of OD and the father of social psychology (Freedman, 1999). His theories and field experiments formed the foundations of action research and experiential learning in general, and planned social change, consultation skills, democratic values-based systems interventions, strategic change, organizational analysis, change strategies, management and leadership skills development, role renegotiation, participative problem-solving and decision-making skills development, group-process facilitation, team-building, intergroup conflict management, large-group interventions, diversity, organizational learning, the use of power, and quality of work life in particular (Gold, 1999; Lewin, 1997).

The name “organization development,” was given to the infant discipline in 1959. Herbert Shepard and Robert Blake were using the managerial grid at Esso’s Bayway Refinery at the same time as Richard Beckhard and Douglas McGregor were facilitating an organizational-culture change project with General Mills. Both were adapting small-group theory and methods (derived from sensitivity—or T-group—training developed by the NTL Institute for the Applied Behavioral Sciences) to organizational settings. Simultaneously and independently, both teams named their work “organization development.” From then until the mid-1970s, the NTL Institute for the Applied Behavioral Sciences and its members produced the bulk of the research, publications, and training in OD.

The fundamental theory, technology, values, and methods of OD have been discussed extensively elsewhere (see Bradford & Burke, 2005; Cummings & Worley, 2005; French et al., 2000; Gallos, 2006; McLean, 2006; Rothwell & Sullivan, 2005; Sorensen et al., 2001). However, the core values, theory, and methods of OD are not the focus of this part. The three chapters that make it up explore and discuss aspects of OD that are not easily accessible elsewhere: organizational diagnosis and the relationship between action research and collaborative management research.





1.4.1 Chapter 19: A Critical Review of Organization Development—Bernard Burnes


Burnes considers OD to be continuing to evolve and change, rather than becoming ­irrelevant. He shows how it grew from efforts to apply T-group technology to intact organizational units during the late 1950s through the early 1970s. OD was a key component of the movement to democratize organizational systems, while also helping these systems to become more effective. The flow of clinical psychologists into the ranks of T-group trainers during this decade diverted the focus from self-reflective awareness and education to psychotherapy therapy. This led to criticism that T-groups (and OD) damaged the careers and psychological health of participants.

Since the mid-1950s, the influence of action research and participative management in the practice of OD has grown, and these have substantially replaced T-groups as the core technology of OD. Of considerable interest is the prominence of Lewinian theory up to the early 1980s and his decline in popularity through to the early 1990s, when he was marginalized (mostly by practitioners) in favor of postmodern OD values, theories, and methods and the growing demands from client organizations for OD practitioners to demonstrate a positive and significant return on investment. This led to an expansion of the focus of OD from small-group dynamics to a more holistic and comprehensive perspective that built on sociotechnical systems (STS) models and shifted attention from group norms to organizational culture, from group to organizational learning, from incremental, participative change to fast, top-down, driven transformation, and from planned to emergent change initiatives. From the 1990s through the first decade of the 21st century, the world of OD seems to have experienced a crisis of confidence. However, Burnes sees a current renaissance that may be an integration of the beliefs and opinions of practitioners and researchers, during which Lewin seems to have been posthumously “rehabilitated” and OD researchers and scholars have expanded their boundaries to incorporate the perspectives, opinions, and beliefs of the theory’s critics. Burnes concludes with an optimistic view that the gaps between researchers, scholars, and practitioners will be bridged and OD will continue to evolve to show its rigor and relevance.





1.4.2 Chapter 20: The Application of Systems Theory to Organizational Diagnosis—Arthur M. Freedman


Freedman offers a history of conceptual mental models of organizational systems that have served to both educate organizational leaders and guide OD practitioners in diagnosing, planning, and implementing complex systems change. He points out that organizational leaders must feel dissatisfied with the status quo before they are likely to consider either incremental change or radical transformation. Mental models of organizations also assist organizational architects to design or redesign organizational systems. He shows how mental model makers built their models on the foundations established by their predecessors, mostly by adding or rearranging elements or microsystems and interactions of these elements and microsystems. He differentiates between systems thinking (which is an essential functional competence for executive leaders) and systems analysis (which is essential in diagnosing and evaluating an organization’s effectiveness). He points out that the designers of these systems models claim their models guide the creation of comprehensive action plans that address the primary, secondary, and tertiary perturbations that are caused by social, technological, structural, political, or process changes. However, his ­historical critique reveals that some models are better able to serve these functions than others.

Freedman also presents a thorough explication of his “swamp model,” which incorporates the culture, climate, strategy, talent-management, structure, and finance elements of a system as well as its technological elements—and their interactions. Freedman shows how each element of his mental model—and the transactions among them—serve as “buckets” to hold data collected during an organizational diagnostic process and that the contents of each of these buckets can be analyzed in terms of both their functionality and their flexibility or adaptability. This analysis allows change agents and organizational leaders to identify primary, secondary, and tertiary targets of change, specify their incremental or transformational change goals, and begin to plan the action steps needed to move from the current to the desired future state.





1.4.3 Chapter 21: Organization Development Research Interventions—David Coghlan and A.B. (Rami) Shani


Coghlan and Shani offer their perspective that the practice of OD is based upon two foundational processes: action research (AR) and collaborative management research (CMR). They define and specify the relationships between these two processes, and compare and contrast “diagnostic OD” with “dialogic OD”; they believe that AR and CMR exemplify dialogic OD, which enables organizational members to understand their organizational systems and determine what actions might be undertaken to improve their effectiveness. They explore how various sets of interventions cluster around these two processes. Interventions are selected in two stages. In the first, they are delineated into two approaches: those that enable organizational members to (1) close the gap between current and desired states and (2) establish and maintain congruence among relevant systems elements. In the second stage, researchers and practitioners collaborate to co-construct an acceptable view of the organization. Then they select and apply particular interventions on the basis of the focal issue, change orientation, target-system readiness, leverage points, and change-agent skills. This provides a philosophical basis from which to enable change agents to select interventions that serve the needs of their client systems.

Coghlan and Shani then describe holistic, focused, and limited OD initiatives, while also referencing instances where OD theory and methods have been melded with non-OD interventions. They describe the use of the general empirical method that engages OD researchers with client-system leaders in a community of inquiry which constructs and articulates the organization’s current and desired future states. This becomes the basis of co-designing and co-implementing research-guided organizational change that illuminates central issues and leads to the selection of OD interventions that address these issues.





References


Bateson, G. (1972). Steps to the Ecology of Mind. New York: Ballantine Books.

Bradford, D.L. & Burke, W.W., editors (2005). Reinventing Organization Development. San Francisco: Pfeifer.

Cummings, T.G. & Worley, C.G. (2005). Organization Development & Change, 8th edition. Mason, OH: Thompson/Southwestern.

Diamond, M.A. (1993). The Unconscious Life of Organizations: Interpreting Organizational Identity. Westport, CT: Quorum Books.

Freedman, A.M. (1999). The history of organization development and the NTL Institute for the Applied Behavioral Sciences: what we have learned, forgotten, and rewritten. The Psychologist-Manager Journal, 3(2), 123–141.

French, W.L., Bell, C.H., & Zawacki, R.A., editors (2000). Organization Development and Transformation, 5th edition. Boston: Irwin McGraw-Hill.

Gallos, J.V. (2006). Organization Development: A Jossey-Bass Reader. San Francisco: Jossey-Bass.

Gold, M., editor (1999). A Kurt Lewin Reader: The Complete Social Scientist. Washington, DC: American Psychological Association.

Kets de Vries, M.F.R. & Miller, D. (1984). The Neurotic Organization. San Francisco: Jossey-Bass.

Lawrence, P.R. (2010). Driven to Lead: Good, Bad, and Misguided Leadership. San Francisco: Jossey-Bass.

Lewin, K.Z. (1958). Group Decision and Social Change. New York: Holt, Rinehart and Winston.

Lewin, K. (1997). Resolving Social Conflicts & Field Theory in Social Science. Washington, DC: American Psychological Association.

Marrow, A.J. (1972). The Practical Theorist: The Life and Work of Kurt Lewin. New York: Basic Books.

McLean, G.N. (2006). Organization Development: Principles, Processes, Performance. San Francisco: Berrett-Koehler.

Rothwell, W.J. & Sullivan, R. (2005). Practicing Organization Development: A Guide for Consultants. San Francisco: Pfeiffer.

Sorensen, P.F. Jr., Head, T.C., Yaeger, T., & Cooperrider, D., editors (2001). Global and International Organization Development. Champaign, IL: Stipes.

Stacey, R.D. (1992). Managing the Unknowable: Strategic Boundaries between Order and Chaos in Organizations. San Francisco: Jossey-Bass.

von Bertalanffy, L. (1969). General System Theory. New York: George Braziller.

Watzlawick, P., Weakland, J.H. & Fisch, R. (1974). Change: Principles of Problem Formation and Problem Resolution. New York: W.W. Norton & Co.





Part I


Leadership





2


A Critical Review of Leadership Theory


Beverly Alimo-Metcalfe





2.1 Introduction


This chapter adopts a critical approach to reviewing developments in leadership theory. It begins with a general overview of research relating to the evidence of an association between leadership and individual and organizational performance, before describing the main stages in the history of the study of this complex and fascinating subject.





2.1.1 The importance and the complexity of leadership research


It is hardly surprising that the topic of leadership is one of the most popular areas of study in the field of organizational behavior and organizational studies, since it is widely assumed that leadership affects the link between individual effectiveness and organizational performance (Barling et al., 1996; Bass, 1998; Crant, 2000; Keller, 2006; Yukl, 2010), in part as a result of having a significant impact on subordinates’ attitudes to work, which, in turn, affect their work-related behaviors (e.g. Bass, 1998; Belschak & Den Hartog, 2010; Northouse, 2010; Rowe et al., 2005; Strauss et al., 2009).





2.1.2 Issues of leadership and performance measurement


There are, however, few studies that show a causal link between leadership and performance that is measured objectively, and for which the potentially confounding effect of contextual variables has been controlled (e.g. Jing & Avery, 2008; Keller, 2006). Of those studies which have examined the relationship between leadership and measures of effectiveness or performance, most have been cross-sectional in nature rather than longitudinal; thus ­causality cannot be inferred (Gardner et al., 2010; Hunt, 2004; Judge & Piccolo, 2004; Lowe & Gardner, 2000).

Several studies have used subjective assessments of effectiveness, by individuals who are also rating the leaders’ behavior, style, or competencies. The potential influence of common-source and common-method variance is regularly cautioned by leadership researchers (e.g. Avolio et al., 1991; Barling et al., 2002; Chang et al., 2010; Jermier & Kerr, 1997; Waldman et al., 2001; Walumbwa et al., 2004), although Spector (2006) and Spector & Brannick (1995) assert that this may be overstated.

The validity of the outcome performance measurement, or “criterion” variable, is clearly a crucial issue (e.g. Dionne et al., 2002; Keller, 2006; Scherbaum et al., 2006), but the literature can be confusing in relation to the use of the term “performance.” For example, some studies adopt it when referring to subjective measures of performance, as is the case where individuals rate their own or their unit’s performance (e.g. Pillai & Williams, 2004), as opposed to assessing it using some objective measure of performance (e.g. Jing & Avery, 2008; Hoogh et al., 2004). Even when objective measures are adopted, there have been criticisms that the range of measures has been limited, for example to financial measures, such as net profit margin (Koene et al., 2002; Waldman et al., 2001) or business unit sales (e.g. Barling et al., 1996; Hoogh et al., 2004), or to nonfinancial measures such as customer or employee satisfaction, rather than adopting both types of outcome measure, which would strengthen criterion validity (cited in Jing & Avery, 2008, p. 73).

Other studies relating to “leader performance” or effectiveness are referring to subordinates’ subjective ratings of the impact of their supervisor on their attitudes to work, or general views of their supervisor, such as ratings of “satisfaction with leadership style,” the impact their supervisor has on their motivation, and their assessment of the “extra effort” they exert as a result (e.g. Bass, 1998; Judge & Bono, 2000; Judge et al., 2002; Judge & Piccolo, 2004; Lowe et al., 1996). The use of leadership performance in this case might, therefore, be regarded more accurately as an investigation of the construct validity of the model of leadership being assessed.

Other criticisms cited in the literature include: a lack of distinction between studies of leadership at the macro-level (e.g. organizational) versus the micro-level (individual or group) (Dansereau et al., 1984; House & Aditya, 1997), or inappropriately measuring and analyzing data or drawing inferences from the data (Yammarino et al., 2005; Yammarino & Dansereau, 2009); a disregard for the importance of the variable of social distance (Alimo-Metcalfe & Alban-Metcalfe, 2005; Antonakis & Atwater, 2002; Avolio et al., 2004; Cole et al., 2009; Shamir, 1995; Waldman & Yammarino,1999); a narrowness of focus of researchers on a limited range of leadership paradigms (Jing & Avery, 2008), and related to this, a presumption of the generalizability of US research findings to a non-US context (Alimo-Metcalfe & Alban-Metcalfe, 2001, 2005; House & Aditya, 1997; Hunt & Peterson, 1997; Smith & Bond, 1993); that research which has been based on all, or predominantly, male samples, has been unquestioningly applied to the general management population (Alimo-Metcalfe, 1995, 2010, 2011; House & Aditya, 1997); a lack of regard for the importance of context (Avery, 2004; Bryman, 1996; Conger, 1998; Jing & Avery, 2008; House & Aditya, 1997; Liden & Antonakis, 2009; Lowe & Gardner, 2000); and the narrow scope of research, mainly on dyadic processes between leader and follower, which has neglected the influence of leadership in team-based contexts (Klein & House, 1995; Lim & Ployhart, 2004; Schaubroeck et al., 2007; Shamir, 1999; Yukl, 2010).

This chapter will critically review the key stages in the development of leadership ­theory.





2.2 Leadership: A Critical Review of the Literature


It has been suggested by Northouse (2010) that “Leadership is a process whereby an individual influences a group of individuals to achieve a common goal” (p.3). While this provides a useful starting point, it will be seen in the following sections that definitions have changed over time.

Since leadership must be viewed in the context of its time, it is important to bear in mind the fact that environmental factors such as social, technological, economic, political, and ecological change have a significant impact on what is meant by “leadership,” the challenges it is addressing, and the resulting models that dominate any specific era. It is, however, also true that most of the published research has been undertaken in the US, and therefore it is US models that have dominated the “received wisdom” as to what is ­leadership.

The formal academic study of leadership, which began in the 1930s, is replete with ­theories, models, and approaches, some of which build upon and extend earlier approaches, and others of which directly challenge them. In analyzing this body of work, it is important to be aware of conceptual and methodological considerations.

During this 80+ year period, it is possible to distinguish five principal stages. The ­following sections describe these stages and take a critical look at their contributions to the development of leadership theory.





2.2.1 Stage 1: the “trait” theories


The major focus of the pioneering leadership researchers was to identify the personal qualities and traits that distinguished leaders from followers, the underlying premise being that leadership is innate, as opposed to learned. Among the traits that were investigated were “energy,” “dominance,” and “intelligence,” but findings were inconsistent. This is probably not surprising, since the situation was not taken into account. Reviews by Stodgill (1948), Mann (1959), Gibb (1947), and Jenkins (1947) led to the conclusion that there were few, if any, traits that were universally associated with leader effectiveness. Although this led to the general abandonment of such investigations, Stodgill, who believed that the qualities, characteristics, and skills that a leader needs to possess are, to a large extent, determined by demands of the situation they face, urged researchers to study the nature of the interaction between certain situational variables and traits.

In their review of trait theory, House & Aditya (1997) remark that the early studies were conducted at a time when personality theory was not well evidenced by empirical studies, and test-measurement theory was in its infancy. It is also not well known that these early “trait studies were almost entirely based on samples of adolescents, supervisors and lower-level managers” (House & Aditya, 1997, p. 411).

A few decades later, there was a re-emergence of interest in the role of personal traits and appearing leader-like, especially in the wake of the “new paradigm” models of “­charismatic–inspirational” leadership (e.g. Bass, 1985; Burns, 1978; House, 1977). This was also true for the literature relating to “Implicit Leadership Theory,” which asserts that most individuals, as a result of their socialization, have internalized beliefs about the characteristics and behaviors of what makes “a leader,” which affect the way in which they behave in relation to their own leadership approach, and how they respond to individuals in leadership roles (Hollander & Julian, 1969; Lord et al., 1984; Lord et al., 1982). In their meta-analysis of trait studies, Lord et al. (1986) identified three traits which were significantly associated with followers’ perceptions of leadership: “intelligence,” “dominance,” and “masculinity,” the latter two of which clearly have implications for women in relation to being identified as having leadership potential (e.g. Fletcher, 2004; Lyness & Heilman, 2006; Schein, 2001).

More recently, writers concerned with identifying the “dark side” of leadership (e.g. Furnham, 2010; Hogan et al., 1994; Lipman-Blumen, 2004) have made a significant contribution to our understanding that the same personality traits which make some leaders attractive, such as charisma, inspiration, vision, courage, and resilience, can become a destructive force to those around them and their organization if they are exhibited in their extreme forms, and if there is a lack of concern for, or a lack of insight into, the impact they are having. This shall be discussed in more detail in Section 2.2.4.1.





2.2.2 Stage 2: the “behavioral” approach


The discouraging reviews of the 1940s served to divert the attention of psychologists away from the characteristics of who leaders were, to how they behaved in relation to influencing their followers. Studies were conducted in laboratory settings, in which behaviors were observed—mainly of students (House & Aditya, 1996)—and in field settings, in which individuals were asked to rate people in authority—typically someone at a supervisory level. These data were then related to various criteria of leader effectiveness (House & Aditya, 1996). Among the most important studies were those of Bales and colleagues at Harvard (Bales, 1954), Stodgill and colleagues at Ohio State University (Stodgill & Coons, 1957), and researchers at the University of Michigan (Kahn & Katz, 1953; Likert, 1961; Mann, 1965).

Such behavior was described as the “leadership style” adopted by the leader. Although well over 30 different models were developed, most can be described in terms of four styles: (1) concern for task—also called “production-orientated”; (2) concern for people—also called “employee-centered”; (3) directive leadership—also called “authoritarian” or “autocratic”; (4) participative—also called “democratic.” In some studies, styles such as directive and participative were represented as discrete types of leadership; in others they were regarded as opposite poles of a single dimension. However, an individual may be highly participative in certain situations, but highly directive in others (Wright, 1996).

No consistent pattern emerged from studies investigating the impact of these leadership behaviors in relation to various criterion variables, including subordinate satisfaction, or a range of subordinate or supervisory effectiveness measures, including productivity (House, 1971; Larson et al., 1974; Yukl, 2010). Reasons for the inconsistency in findings include a multitude of factors, among them a failure to take account of the variables in the situation, the effect of any interaction between subordinate behaviors on the way in which the ­leadership style was manifested, and the nature of the criterion variable selected (e.g. Northouse, 2010; Yukl, 2010). Other reasons might relate to the validity of the measure ­adopted (Bass, 1990; Schriesheim et al., 1976). In common with the trait studies, leadership was studied mainly at the supervisory or junior management position.

Despite these limitations, the behavioral approach was valuable in that it broadened the focus of leadership research to include how leaders act in relation to their followers/­subordinates, and distinctions were drawn between task-related behavior and relationship-related behavior, and directive versus participative styles. It also provided a tool for ­informing training and development. It was not, however, able to show how leadership behaviors are linked to performance outcomes; nor, unsurprisingly, did it succeed in ­identifying a universal style that would be effective in most situations.





2.2.3 Stage 3: the “situational” and “contingency” approaches


Towards the latter years of the 1960s, there was an increasing appreciation for understanding the importance of contextual factors in influencing the effectiveness of leadership behaviors, in particular variables associated with the specific task or project in which leaders were interacting with subordinates.

The situational models of leadership that emerged emphasized the importance of a range of variables, such as the levels of subordinate competence and confidence in the tasks they were performing, or their “maturity”/“developmental level” (Blanchard et al., 1993; Hersey & Blanchard, 1969, 1988). Other models that were developed to support a manager in making the correct decision as to the leadership style to adopt incorporated additional factors unrelated to the subordinate, such as the amount of time available, the importance of the technical quality of the decision, and the extent to which the manager possessed sufficient information to make the appropriate decision (Vroom & Jago, 1988; Vroom & Yetton, 1973).

The strengths of the situational models are that they encourage managers to consider a range of variables when selecting an appropriate leadership style in any situation, and stress that flexibility in approach is key to effectively influencing the behavior of subordinates in achieving an objective. In addition, they provide practical guidance as to how to enact the style. The benefits to researchers include suggestions as to which variables might be important to consider when investigating leadership effectiveness.

While these models assume that managers, in the main, have the facility to modify their leadership style, one model in particular does not accept this premise. Fiedler’s contingency model (Fiedler, 1964, 1967; Fiedler & Chemers, 1974) emerged from his research in, mainly, military organizations, in which he observed the styles of leaders in a variety of situations (Northouse, 2010). It is based on the proposition that a manager’s leadership style depends on their personality (Fiedler, 1972) and is thus to a large extent inflexible. Therefore, what is critical to leader effectiveness is matching the leader to the situation, rather than vice versa.

Fiedler identified three variables which he believed to be of particular importance when creating the leader–situation match. These were leader–member relations—or the strength of warmth and loyalty between the leader and the follower, measured by the Least-­Preferred Co-worker (LPC) Scale; task structure—or the degree to which there is only one specific way in which the task can be achieved successfully; and the position power of the leader—that is, the amount of authority they have to reward or discipline subordinates.

Conclusions as to the validity of the model are equivocal. For example, two meta-­analyses found partial support for the theory (Peters et al., 1985; Strube & Garcia, 1981), but Vecchio (1983) challenged the findings on the basis of faulty selection of studies and inappropriate statistical analysis (House & Aditya, 1996), although this charge was refuted by Strube & Garcia (1983). More fundamentally, several researchers have questioned the construct validity of the LPC, which is a key component of the theory since it measures the “natural” style of the leader. Triandis (1993), for example, states, “The weakest point of the theory is that we do not really understand what LPC (least preferred co-worker) is” (p. 169). Wright (1996) refers to the LPC as “an enigmatic personality questionnaire” (p. 53). Schriesheim & Kerr’s (1977) remark that the LPC is a “measure in search of a meaning” (p. 23) would appear to aptly summarize these comments.

With respect to the contributions of Fiedler’s model, it should be borne in mind that it was developed over half a century ago and is regarded as the first major situational model. Importantly, it initiated the switch from focusing purely on the personality traits of leaders, to emphasizing also the importance of contextual variables (Liden & Antonakis, 2009), and particularly the relationship between leader and follower.

In addition to the criticisms cited above, given that the model is based on the inflexibility of leadership style, if it were correct then individuals in leadership positions would have to be moved around an organization as the task structure and position power varied, which is hardly practical. Further, it does not take account of the characteristics of subordinates, including their skills and knowledge, and their preference for the leadership style of their supervisor/manager (Wright, 1996), but rather it appears to focus on the manager’s “implicit notions of a preferred subordinate/followership.” Nor does it reflect the evidence that leadership can be developed, or that the responsibilities and roles of a manager typically change when they are promoted.





2.2.3.1 LMX theory


Although space does not allow a detailed description of the theory and research surrounding leader–member exchange (LMX) theory, which emerged from the vertical-linkage dyad model (Dansereau et al., 1975), it should be noted that this particular perspective on leadership contributed significantly to focusing on the nature of the dyadic interactions between leaders and their followers (Graen, 1976; Graen & Cashman, 1976). As the name suggests, this concerns an exchange between the parties, and one key result is the formation of in-groups and out-groups. More recent research has extended the theory by looking at the impact of empowerment as a moderator of the consequences of these relationships on attitudes to work, such as job satisfaction, and job performance and organizational citizenship behaviors (e.g. Graen & Uhl-Bien, 1995; Harris et al., 2009; Northouse, 2010), and by relating the theory to leadership at the team level (Naidoo et al., 2008).

While LMX theory has played an important role in emphasizing the importance of the relationship between a leader and each of their followers, it is not without its critics. In brief, the criticisms include: that the emphasis on in-groups and out-groups can lead to discrimination, with those followers fortunate enough to enjoy a positive relationship with their leader receiving certain privileges, although this has been contested (e.g. Harter & Evanecky, 2002; Scandura, 1999); that there might be differences between the leader’s perspective on the relationship and that of the follower; and that of the few studies that have compared leader and follower ratings of the relationship, a meta-analysis by ­Gerstner & Day (1997, cited in Schyns & Day, 2010) found that the average correlation was only .29, which should not come as a surprise given the findings from multisource feedback studies (e.g. Fleenor et al., 2010). There have also been criticisms of the content validity of the measures used in LMX research (Schriesheim et al., 2001), and whether the use of the unidimensional scale should be replaced by a multidimensional one (Graen & Uhl-Bien, 1995).

In the context of recent developments in leadership theory, moving towards the notion of leadership as a shared process (see later sections), it will be interesting to see whether this has any significant impact on the LMX theory.

It should be noted that the contingency and situational models were developed in the 1960s and early 1970s, by US researchers, at a time when the economy was booming in the West and when greater efficiency of production was the major focus of organizations. They later came to be regarded as being concerned with “management,” rather than “leadership” (Bryman, 1992, 1995; Northouse, 2010), since they were mainly focused on maintaining status quo, while enabling organizations to be more efficient and effective. This notion of leadership was inadequate in helping managers and organizations deal with the pace and magnitude of the changes which faced Western organizations in the recession following the oil crisis of 1973, coupled with the growing strength of competition from East Asian economies. A new notion of leadership was required to deal with continuous change and unpredictability.





2.2.4 Stage 4: the “charismatic–inspirational models”—“heroic” leadership


In response to these challenges, a number of US psychologists developed what are described as “new paradigm” models, with their emphasis on mobilizing an organization in some future direction and handling change (Bryman, 1993, 1996).

The models that were developed emphasized different aspects of “neo-charismatic” leadership (House & Aditya, 1997), including “charisma” (Conger, 1988, 1999; Conger & Kanungo, 1998; House, 1977), “vision” (Bennis & Nanus, 1985; Sashkin, 1988; Tichy & Devanna, 1986), “transformation” and “transaction” (Bass, 1985, 1998; Kouzes & Posner, 1997).

A “charismatic” leader is seen as one who possesses certain personality characteristics and acts in ways that result in trust, obedience, identification with them, and confidence in success (e.g. Conger & Kanungo, 1988, 1998; House, 1977). In “visionary” leadership, “vision” refers to an attractive and believable future state, which organizational stakeholders will help to achieve (Bennis & Nanus, 1985; Sashkin, 1988; Tichy & Devanna, 1986).

Recent reviews of published leadership research (e.g. Avolio et al., 2009; Gardner et al., 2010;) have stated that the most commonly adopted “neo-charismatic” model is Bass’s model of transformational leadership (Bass, 1985, 1998). “Transformational” leaders are characterized by being able to motivate colleagues and followers to view their work from new perspectives; be aware of their team’s and organization’s mission or vision; attain higher levels of ability and potential; and look beyond their own interests towards those that will benefit the group (Bass, 1985). The model of transformational leadership comprises the following four transformational components: idealized influence—exhibiting high levels of integrity and providing a strong sense of mission, articulated in an exciting vision, which result in being admired and respected such that their followers wish to emulate them; inspirational motivation—communicating positive expectations of followers, which motivates and inspires those around them by providing meaning, optimism, and enthusiasm for the achievement of a shared vision; intellectual stimulation—encouraging followers to challenge assumptions and beliefs held by themselves, the organization, and the leader, and to reframe problems and approach old solutions in new ways; ­individualized consideration—actively developing the potential of followers by creating new opportunities for development, coaching, mentoring, and paying attention to followers’ needs and desires.

The model also contains two transactional components. “Transactional” behaviors are based on an exchange relationship between leader and follower, or a quid pro quo, in return for the desired behaviors: contingent reward—the desired follower actions are ­rewarded, while disapproved actions are punished or sanctioned; management by exception (active) and management by exception (passive)—these are corrective transactional ­behaviors, which include critical feedback and negative reinforcement. The former involves a monitoring of performance, and intervention when judged appropriate; the latter involves correction only when problems emerge. Finally, “laissez faire”—a style of leadership that is, in fact, an abrogation of leadership, since there is an absence of any transaction. It is deemed to be most ineffective (Bass, 1998).

Transformational leadership is regarded as superior to transactional leadership because the latter results in expected outcomes, whereas the former results in performance that achieves “beyond expectations” (Bass, 1985). Bass (1997) argued that, while context and contingencies are a source of variance, the fundamental phenomena transcend organizations and countries.

Given the popularity of the neo-charismatic theories and the ubiquitous use of the ­Multifactor Leadership Questionnaire (MLQ) as a research instrument, it is hardly surprising that there is a wealth of research on the subject. Lowe and Gardner’s (2000) content analysis of articles published in the highly respected Leadership Quarterly between 1990 and 2000 revealed that 34% were based on these models; however, in a similar review a decade later, this had fallen to 12.6% (Gardner et al., 2010), largely due to the fact that “a plethora of competing perspectives had emerged over the past decade to challenge these perspectives, suggesting that diverse seeds for a potential paradigm shift have been ­planted” (Reichers & Schneider, 1990, cited in Gardner et al., 2010, p. 936).

One of the major strengths of Bass’s (1985) model of transformational leadership is that it shifted the direction of leadership thinking from a utilitarian focus on influencing others by adopting a transactional approach between leader and follower, to an emphasis on the importance of leadership as having a moral dimension and being concerned with the “greater good.” It also stresses a focus on the needs of “followers” by providing a sense of meaning in what they do in relation to their organizational role, and actively seeking opportunities to develop them (e.g. Bass, 1985, 1998). There is evidence from studies using the MLQ that transformational leadership is significantly associated with subordinate satisfaction, motivation, commitment, and performance (e.g. Bass, 1998; Lowe et al., 1996; Skakon et al., 2010; Tims et al., 2011; Yukl, 1999).





2.2.4.1 Criticism of “neo-charismatic” leadership models (referred to earlier as the “charismatic–inspirational” models)


Various models that make up the “neo-charismatic” approach have been criticized on conceptual and methodological grounds (e.g. Bryman, 1996; Northouse, 2010; Yukl, 1999), while Alimo-Metcalfe & Alban-Metcalfe (2001, 2005) have expressed concern about the assumed generalizability of models derived from the US private and military sectors to a non-US and public-sector context. North American researchers have also raised the issue of a US-centric approach to leadership (e.g. Gardner et al., 2010; House & Aditya, 1997; Hunt & Peterson, 1997; Judge & Piccolo, 2004; Smith & Bond, 1993; Triandis, 1993).

Conceptually, “new paradigm” models have been criticized for resulting in models of “distant” (Shamir, 1995), often “heroic” leadership, since they were based largely on observations of senior or top-level executives, yet were commonly adopted, uncritically, in research and leadership-development activities that related to “close” or “nearby leaders,” such as individuals’ immediate bosses (e.g. Alimo-Metcalfe & Alban-Metcalfe, 2005; Mintzberg, 1999; Northouse, 2010)—an example of the relevance of the level-of-analysis issue mentioned earlier. The literature on transformational leadership has been criticized for lacking conceptual clarity and for treating transformational leadership as a personality trait or predisposition rather than as a behavior which can be learned (e.g. Bryman, 1992)—a view that was rebutted by Bass and Avolio (1993).

The construct, convergent, and discriminant validity of the MLQ, which is the most commonly adopted instrument for assessing transformational leadership, have attracted criticism from researchers who have found high levels of intercorrelations between the four supposedly distinct transformational dimensions of the model (e.g. Carless, 1998; Tejeda et al., 2001; Judge & Piccolo, 2004), and even between the scales measuring the transformational dimensions and the transactional dimensions of contingent reward (Judge & Piccolo, 2004). In their investigation of the validity of the MLQ, which they describe as “the most thorough and comprehensive meta-analysis of the transformational or charismatic, transactional, and laissez-faire leadership literatures” (p. 756), Judge and Piccolo found evidence that the transactional dimension of contingent reward yielded validity coefficients of comparable or even higher value in predicting some of the criterion variables than was predicted by the transformational scores. This finding contradicts one of the fundamental assertions of the model, that transformational leadership is superior to transactional leadership (Bass, 1985, 1998).

Emphasis on the “charismatic” characteristics of leaders, which represents a return to an interest in the association between personality and leadership, has also come in for closer scrutiny as awareness has grown of the “dark side of charisma” (e.g. Conger, 1990; ­Furnham, 2005; Hogan et al., 1990; Howell, 1988; Yukl, 1999). Some researchers have urged organizations not just to focus on identifying the presence of certain positive characteristics, but equally to ensure the absence of “dark-side” traits, particularly those that alienate other colleagues, most importantly subordinates (Hogan et al., 1994; Hogan & Hogan, 2001). House & Howell (1992) distinguish between two kinds of charismatic leadership: personalized (self-aggrandizing, exploitative, authoritarian) and socialized (altruistic, collectively oriented, egalitarian) (House & Aditya, 1997). Bass (1998) was mindful of the way in which the attraction of transformational leadership could be manipulated to serve the needs of the leader, rather than their co-workers/direct reports and their organization, and he coined the term describing such individuals as “pseudotransformational.”

Yukl (1999) warns that some charismatic leaders use manipulative behaviors such as “exaggerating positive achievements and taking unwarranted credit for achievements,” “covering up mistakes and failures,” and “blaming others for mistakes” (p. 296). In a cross-sectional study, Tosi et al. (2004) found no evidence of a relationship between the degree of perceived charisma of CEOs of Fortune 500 companies and their companies’ performances, but interestingly, did find a significant positive relationship between their “charisma” rating and their remuneration package. They add a warning that boards of organizations “should be a bit more circumspect in advocating charisma as a criterion for the selection of CEOs” (p. 414).

This last point has important implications for those involved in selection processes. Early leadership research focusing on the relationship between personality and those who were observed as emerging as leaders in unstructured/leaderless groups found that traits that typically emerged included: dominance, extraversion, sociability, ambition or achievement, and self-confidence (Mann, 1959; Stodgill, 1948). Subsequent research obtained similar findings (e.g. Gough, 1990; Kenny & Zaccaro, 1983; Lord et al., 1986; Rueb & Foti, 1990). These findings relate, in turn, to the notion of Implicit Leadership Theory (ILT), referred to in Section 2.2.1; that is, we attribute leadership ability to individuals who are seen as possessing the characteristics that are consistent with our notions of what a leader should be like. For many people, these characteristics reflect aspects of being ­charismatic. Hogan et al. (1994) warn of the potentially damaging consequences of not guarding against the inordinate influence of the attraction of charismatic candidates in selection processes.

Further criticism, voiced by Yukl (1999), is that the transformational model is elitist and antidemocratic, and suffers from “heroic leadership” bias, because the theory stresses that it is the leader who influences the followers to do exceptional things—a perspective it shares in common with both “charismatic” and “visionary” models. Bass & Avolio (1993) and Avolio (1999) have contested the criticism of elitism, arguing that transformational leadership can be directive and participative as well as democratic and authoritarian. Northouse (2010), however, maintains that, given the elitist nature of the original samples adopted in developing the model (see later), the criticism of elitism raises valid questions about the generalizability of the model of transformational leadership. A more fundamental criticism of these models is that they fail to acknowledge the reciprocal influence of the follower–leader relationship or the concept of shared leadership, which will be discussed Section 2.2.8.

Although implicitly value-laden, “transformational” leadership has the potential for both exponential benefit and catastrophic failure, depending on the ethical disposition of the leader (e.g. O’Connor et al., 1995, cited in Lowe & Gardner, 2000, p. 511).

Methodologically, several neo-charismatic models have been criticized for being based on noninclusive samples with respect to gender and ethnicity (Alimo-Metcalfe & Alban-Metcalfe, 2005). This applies to the original research of Bass and Avolio (based on an original sample of n = 70 male senior South African executives, of whom one was black, and all of whom were male). In relation to ethnicity, Booysen’s (2002) and Booysen and Nkomo’s (2010) research presents evidence of differences in notions of leadership ­between black and white managers in South Africa, while the Globe Project has pointed to differences as well as similarities in the “operationalization” of leadership constructs such as “charisma” and what is regarded as culturally appropriate behavior of leadership among managers in different countries and cultures (Den Hartog et al., 1999; House et al., 1999). Several writers have documented the history of leadership research from the perspective of gender and concluded that there has been a distinct male gender bias with respect to the construction of leadership (e.g. Alimo-Metcalfe, 1995, 2005; Calas & ­Smircich, 1996; Fletcher, 2004; Heilman, 1983; Jacobson & Jacques, 1990; Kark, 2004; Schein, 1994). They have also found evidence of gender-based differences in implicit notions of leadership (e.g. Alimo-Metcalfe, 1995, 2005, 2010, 2011; Eagly, 2007; Schein, 1994, 2001, 2006). It has been argued that the ramifications of such bias for women, in relation to organizational selection, promotion, appraisal, and performance-evaluation practices, are considerable (e.g. Alimo-Metcalfe, 1994, 2004, 2010; Eagly et al., 1992; Fletcher, 2004; Foschi, 2000; Lyness & Heilman, 2006; Pazy & Oron, 2001).

The conclusion from such research is that unless the original sample on which a model of leadership is developed reflects the diversity of the general population, the model developed will serve to perpetuate the perspective, values, and behaviors of the dominant group, to the exclusion of nonmembers of that group.

Finally, the methodology adopted in developing many of the neo-charismatic models was often based on self-reports; that is, on asking top or senior managers to identify the characteristics that make leaders, such as themselves, successful. In their review of the self–other rating agreement in leadership, Fleenor et al. (2010) state that it is generally accepted that self-ratings of leadership are susceptible to leniency bias and therefore are not considered to be accurate predictors of leadership outcomes, citing several studies that have provided evidence of their lack of validity in relation to others’ ratings or objective measures of outcome criteria (Ashford, 1989; Harris & Schaubroeck, 1988; Mabe & West, 1982; Yammarino & Atwater, 1993, 2003). It is interesting to note that Fleenor et al. (2010) list several factors that tend to be associated with “inflated” self-ratings, which include: being male, older, and at a senior level of management. These biographical characteristics are similar to those in the typical population on whom the neo-charismatic models have been based.





2.2.5 Stage 5: post-heroic models of leadership


In the wake of a series of corporate scandals, including the fall of Enron, AmCom, and Lehman Brothers, and the global banking crisis, which is regularly attributed to the greed and hubris of those in the most senior organizational roles, there was growing dissatisfaction with the legacy of the neo-charismatic models, which are commonly referred to as models of “heroic” leadership.

One notable response to these models has been the popularity, in both the professional managerial and academic publications, of a new genre of leadership texts, which have denounced the notion of attributing organizational success or failure to the presence of a “saviour” figure as crass, or expressed in academic terms, as “the romance of leadership” (Bligh et al., 2011; Meindl et al., 1985). Others have promoted the notion of “quiet leadership” (Badaracco, 2002) and “managing quietly” (Mintzberg, 1999) and the ethical responsibilities of leadership, some of whose publications predate the “heroic” models. Most notable of these is Robert Greenleaf, who coined the term “servant ­leadership” in the 1970s, which he conceives of in terms of integrity, selfless service to others, and power sharing (Greenleaf, 1970, 1996). There is an increasing interest in comparing the values of servant leadership, and its principles, to more recent models of leadership, such as the transformational model (e.g. Stone et al., 2004). Liden and colleagues (2008) have developed a seven-factor measure of servant leadership, which was found to “make a unique contribution beyond transformational leadership and LMX in explaining community citizenship behaviors, in-role performance, and organizational commitment” (p. 161).

New notions of leadership have evolved which emphasize the ethical behavior of leaders, while growing attention is being paid to the conceptualization of leadership as a social process; that is, as dynamic and fluid. Leadership is increasingly regarded as not being about “doing to” others, but about what emerges from the way people “do with” others; that is, how we work with and relate to each other, as colleagues. These include models of “ethical,” “authentic,” and “distributed” leadership.





2.2.6 Ethical leadership


Early models of leadership were concerned with increasing efficiency in production-focused contexts (e.g. behavioral, situational), and later models with the need to cope with ambiguity, greater competition, and change (namely, neo-charismatic). However, following the disaster of the global economic crisis, the major concern is not simply economic survival but also restoring trust in leaders and “doing leadership differently”—by stressing the importance of a values-based approach and, importantly, the integrity of those in leadership positions.

In the wake of the furor following the collapse of Enron and other major scandals, ­several commentators have blamed the popularity of the neo-charismatic models for promoting a highly egocentric approach to leadership. In a chapter published posthumously, UK scholar Ian Mangham (2011) describes the “late twentieth-century business leader” as operating in a culture “that emphasizes individualism, aggression, ruthless behavior, risk-taking, competitiveness and the importance of short-term results, whilst paying lip service to the moral dimension of business” (p. 51). Much of the blame for this moral decay has been directed at the education provided by business schools, which “not only fails to improve the moral character of students, it actually weakens it” (Etzioni, 2002) by promoting the principle that the main responsibility of business is to maximize shareholder value. Some writers have directed their disapproval at “elite” UK and US business schools and the models of leadership they have promulgated uncritically over the last 2 decades (Salaman, 2011; Tourish et al., 2010; Tourish & Vatcha, 2005). Salaman (2011) goes so far as to blame the world recession that began in 2008 on “the qualities and behaviors adoringly associated with this conception of leadership” (p. 57).

While it might be tempting to attribute the blame for such disasters on a body of literature promulgating a particular approach to leadership, for example Bass’s (1985) model of transformational leadership, that would be far too simplistic an argument, and moreover a travesty of the values underlying the original conceptualization of the model (see Bass, 1985, 1998; Bass & Steidlmeier, 1999).

When critically examining any model of leadership, leadership should be seen in the context of the time in which it emerged. Bass’s model was formed, at least in part, in response to what he believed to be the limitations of the situational and contingency models, which emphasized the use of contingent reinforcement as the essential activity of leadership (Bass, 1985, p. xiii). He encouraged a very new perspective of leadership, in which “Managers who aspire to become transformational leaders must pay attention to each of their subordinates, sharing their concerns and development needs, and treating them as individuals” (p. xiv). These were entirely new concepts in relation to the role and activities of leadership, which had been characterized in terms of a transactional, utilitarian relationship between boss and subordinate. Bass was aware of the seduction of the attraction of transformational leaders, noting that “if leaders can command such love, trust and confidence, they can also use their power for evil ends, for selfish aggrandizement at the expense of others, as well as for good, for satisfying the needs of their followers” (p. xiv). Similarly, other neo-charismatic theorists, including Conger & Kanungo (1988, 1998), were aware that charismatic leaders could use their influence to exploit followers for their selfish gain.

Turning to recent developments in the literature regarding the importance of ethics in the practice of leadership, some researchers have become interested in investigating ethical leadership behaviors as a component of leadership, or have sought to explore ethical leadership as a particular style of leadership (Kalshoven et al., 2011).





2.2.6.1 Models of “ethical” leadership


One example of the latter approach has been the model of ethical leadership developed by Brown and Treviño and colleagues (Brown & Treviño, 2006; Brown et al., 2005; Treviño et al., 2003). Its basis is Bandura’s notion of social-learning theory (Bandura, 1986), which posits that behavior is influenced by a combination of the influence of one’s external environment and intrapersonal psychological factors. Brown et al. (2005) define the ­concept of ethical leadership as “the demonstration of normatively appropriate conduct through personal actions and interpersonal relationships, and the promotion of such conduct to followers through two-way communication, reinforcement, and decision-making” (p. 120). The defining characteristic of “ethical” leadership is consistent with the principle on which “transformational” and “authentic” leadership is based—that is, acting for the greater good (cf. Burns, 1978)—in that it places the good of those who are led over the self-interest of the leader, and can be related to the concept of “leader as servant” (Greenleaf, 1970, 1996). Ethical leaders are characterized as honest, caring individuals who make decisions based on fairness, and who not only frequently refer to ethical standards, but also use appropriate rewards and punishments (a transactional approach) to reinforce them. Critically, their behavior is consistent with the views they espouse (Brown & Treviño, 2006; Brown et al., 2005; Treviño et al., 2000, 2003).

Brown & Treviño (2006) propose a range of individual and contextual variables that influence the behaviors of ethical leadership and its impact on follower motivation, satisfaction, and commitment. The development of the Ethical Leadership Scale (ELS) was based on initial exploratory research (Treviño et al., 2000, 2003) into the nature of ethical leadership, which involved asking 20 senior executives and 20 ethics/compliance officers, using structured interviews, to consider an ethical leader with whom they had worked and “to answer broad questions about the characteristics, behaviors, and motives of that leader” (Brown & Treviño, 2006, p. 596). Augmenting the data collected with information from a literature review, a 10-item ELS was developed, which was tested in a range of construct-validation studies (p. 570). Findings from these studies include that “subordinates’ perceptions of ethical leadership predict satisfaction with the leader, perceived leader effectiveness, willingness to exert extra effort on the job, and willingness to report problems to management.” (p. 597). Brown and Treviño describe the shared and distinguishing characteristics of ethical leadership, Bass’s model of transformational leadership, and the notion of authentic leadership (p. 597).

Kalshoven and colleagues (Kalshoven & Den Hartog, 2009; Kalshoven et al., 2011) have expressed their reservations as to the value of the ELS as a unidimensional measure of ethical leadership in providing an understanding of how ethical leadership contributes to leader effectiveness, because it combines what they have found to be three distinct dimensions of the construct (De Hoogh & Den Hartog, 2008). These are: fairness—­acting fairly and honestly; power sharing—listening to followers’ ideas and opinions and allowing followers to be involved in decision making concerning their work; and role ­clarification—communicating openly and clarifying responsibilities and roles.

In a study exploring the possible mediation effects of prototypicality (the extent to which a leader’s behavior is regarded as exemplifying how group members should behave) and trust in a leader, on the relationship between ethical leader behavior and perceived leader effectiveness, Kalshoven and Den Hartog analyzed data from n = 244 direct reports rating reporters’ line managers (two direct reports per manager) on two instruments. Leadership effectiveness was assessed by three measures, including: (1) certain items from the MLQ on leader effectiveness; (2) a measure of trust in the leader (Cook & Wall, 1981); and prototypicality, which was assessed with three items adapted from Platow & van Knippenberg (2001). McAllister (1995) distinguished between cognitive (character) and affective (relational) trust, with the latter as the particular focus for this measure. The researchers found that there was a relationship between ethical leader behavior and being perceived as an effective leader; prototypicality and trust mediated this relationship. In support of their argument that there are three dimensions of ethical leadership, Kalshoven and Den Hartog found separate relationships between the variables (see ­Kashoven & Den Hartog, 2009 for details). More recent work by Kalshoven et al. (2011) led to the identification of a further four dimensions of ethical leader behavior—people orientation, integrity, ethical guidance, and concern for sustainability—and the develop­ment and validation of the Ethical Leadership at Work Questionnaire (ELW).

As Kashover & Den Hartog (2009) point out, since their study was cross-sectional, causal relationships could not be inferred. There is a need for longitudinal research into perceptions of ethical leadership behavior, perceptions of leader effectiveness, and objective outcome measures, with an attempt to control for a range of contextual variables. It would also be useful to gather data on “effectiveness” from a range of different sources, for example by using 360/multisource feedback instruments, which include not only the typical range of internal raters, but also relevant external-stakeholder ratings.





2.2.6.2 Issues to consider in relation to ethical leadership


In relation to the development and conceptualization of any model of ethical leadership, at least two matters are worth considering.

Brown and Treviño do not provide biographical details of the sample of senior executives and ethics/compliance officers on whose descriptions of ethical leaders their report was based. Since gender has been found to relate to how ethical decisions are construed and moral dilemmas analyzed, this information is important. In the development of the ELS, Kalshoven et al. (2011) augmented analysis of the relevant extant literature with data collected via interviews with a Dutch sample of eight managers and seven employees (43% and 50% male, respectively).





GENDER AND ETHICS


In her book In a Different Voice, Carol Gilligan points out that Kohlberg’s classic theory of moral development (Kohlberg, 1958, 1973; Kohlberg & Turiel, 1971) reflected a masculine perspective of morality, not simply because of his gender, but because he based his interviews on 72 male (US) adolescents. She asserts that a masculine orientation of moral reasoning revolves around rules, regulations, rights and principles, and impersonal notions of formal justice, whereas a feminine perspective on morality focuses on relational principles and the ethics of care and compassion, and is more concerned with contextual, affiliative factors. One wonders whether the different tenor and emphasis of the US and Dutch models of ethical leadership were in any way influenced by cultural or gender differences in the original samples. Kalshoven et al. (2011, p. 66) state that the low power-distance aspect of Dutch culture might have affected their findings.

Gilligan’s work spawned research examining whether there is a significant relationship between gender and how ethical and moral decisions are made. The results have proved to be equivocal, with some studies finding that women are rated higher on ethical and moral decision making, across a range of occupational groups and general population samples (e.g. Carnes & Keithley, 1992; Chonko & Hunt, 1985; Cole & McQuinn, 1992; ­Dawson, 1997; Ferrell & Skinner, 1988; Ricklets, 1983), and others finding no significant difference (e.g. Dubinsky & Levy, 1985; Fritzsche, 1988; Kidwell et al., 1987; Singhapakdi & Vitell, 1990). Studies that have focused on student populations have yielded a similar pattern of variations in findings (see Dawson, 1997 for details).





BIOGRAPHICAL DETAILS


Since it is reasonable to assume that many business students have the ambition to become organizational leaders, it is interesting to note that business-studies students have been found in several studies to score lower on ethical attitudes than non-business students (e.g. Crown & Spiller, 1998; Klein et al., 2006; Timiraos, 2002). Worryingly, it would appear that there is evidence that students who cheat in school or college are likely to cheat in the workplace (e.g. Callahan, 2004; Granitz & Loewy, 2007; McCabe et al., 2006). These findings have implications for researchers who conduct studies relating to ethics on such student populations.

In their article on business ethics and gender, McCabe et al. (2006) assert that “corruption and bribery are among the most important business ethics issues faced by companies today and that bribery causes serious economic, political and environmental damage. In addition, most US corporations demonstrate little or no connection between ethics, corporate social responsibility and compliance efforts” (p. 109).

Against this backcloth, the results relating to business students might be regarded as somewhat depressing. McCabe et al. recommend, among others things, that those involved in business education provide opportunities for students to consider the consequences of the ethical decision-making behaviors, and that organizations consider the associated traits and values, and related values of egalitarianism, when determining their recruitment and reward practices.

The developing field of ethical leadership, and future research on the effect of ethical leadership on leader, team, and organizational effectiveness, can make a significant contribution to these activities.





2.2.7 Authentic leadership


The development of the theory of authentic leadership emerged as another response to the demand for greater attention to be paid to the importance of integrity and transparency in business and public life, and the means of holding leaders accountable for their behaviors and actions.

The authentic-leadership theory was developed by Avolio and colleagues (Avolio et al., 2007; Gardner et al., 2005), who state that it emerged over several years “from the intersection of the leadership, ethics, and positive organizational behavior and scholarship literatures” (Walumbwa et al., 2008, p. 92). They also point out that it is still in its early stages of development, and argue that evidence from a range of disciplines, including social, cognitive, and positive psychology and organizational studies, have revealed the benefits of understanding the nature of authenticity and its positive effects on individuals’ self-esteem, well-being, and performance (e.g. Grandey et al., 2005; Ryan & Deci, 2001). While recognizing that the concept of authenticity is derived from the Greek word meaning “be true to oneself,” Walumbwa and his colleagues assert that its application to modern notions of leadership implies a multidimensional construct of which being true to oneself is only one component (Walumbwa et al., 2008).

Authentic leadership shares some features in common with the model of ethical leadership, perhaps most important of which are altruism (Brown & Treviño, 2006) and a strong internal moral perspective (Avolio & Gardner, 2005; Luthans & Avolio, 2003; May et al., 2003; Walumbwa et al., 2008). It has been defined as “a pattern of leader behavior that draws upon and promotes both positive psychological capacities and a positive ethical climate, to foster greater self-awareness, an internalized moral perspective, balanced processing of information, and relational transparency on the part of leaders working with followers, fostering positive self development” (Walumbwa et al., 2008, ­p. 94). Key characteristics of authentic leaders are that they exhibit a pattern of openness and clarity in their behavior towards others, by sharing the information needed to make decisions, accepting others’ inputs, and providing constructive feedback to their followers (Avolio et al., 2004; Gardner et al., 2005). The theory also stresses the importance of leader and follower development as a key aspect of the definition (Walumbwa et al., 2008).

The initial development of the Authentic Leadership Questionnaire (ALQ) (Avolio et al., 2007) was based on reviews of the literature from published sources and ­dissertations, discussions with graduate students and faculty working in the area of leadership research, and the comparison of categories emerging from these data-collecting activities with a content analysis of experienced doctoral students’ descriptions of authentic leaders. A review of the literature was then conducted in relation to ethical and transformational leadership, creating a new pool of items to be content analyzed by academic faculty and doctoral students in relation to the four categories (Walumbwa et al., 2008).

In a series of validation studies, the contribution of the ALQ to explaining variance in three dependent variables—organizational citizenship behavior (OCB) (Wayne et al., 1997), organizational commitment (OC) (Mowday et al., 1979), and satisfaction with one’s supervisor (Smith Kendall & Hulin, 1969)—was compared with the assessment of ethical leadership, using the 10-item measure developed by Brown et al., (2005), and transformational leadership, as assessed by the MLQ Form 5X (Bass & Avolio, 2004). The ALQ was found to contribute unique additional variance in predicting the three dependent variables (Walumbwa et al., 2008).

On the basis of a confirmatory factor analysis of the pool of 16 items, four scales emerged: leader self-awareness, relational transparency, internalized moral perspective, and balanced processing. Walumbwa et al. (2008) pointed out, however, that the four factors “are not independent and that a single second-order factor accounts for this dependence. Thus, our results suggest that it might not be reasonable to conceptualize the measures as assessing entirely separate and distinct constructs. Moreover, the relatively high convergent validity among the factors of self-awareness, relational transparency, internalized moral perspective, and balanced processing suggests that they convey less unique information as they form a higher order construct” (p. 101).

Similar to comparisons made by Brown & Trevino (2006), Walumbwa and colleagues also offer a summary description of the conceptual overlap and distinctions between ethical, transformational, and authentic leadership theories (see Walumbwa et al., 2008).

Given the concern for greater integrity and transparency in modern leaders, and the promise offered by these models in exploring these topics, it would be interesting to have known the results of an exploratory factor analysis of the combined items from the ALQ, MLQ, and ELS (and ELW), and whether any new conceptualizations of ­values-based leadership behaviors emerged, and to have then examined their impact on various criteria.

As was stated in relation to ethical leadership, it would be useful, and indeed important, to include details of the biographical characteristics of the sample of faculty and students (and the subjects of their research) employed in the development of this model, since age, gender, ethnic background, and occupational group may possibly, or even probably, have influenced the constructs of leadership.





2.2.8 Distributed leadership


In parallel with the developments of the ethical and authentic “post-heroic” models of leadership, which have focused on the values base of leadership, there has been a fundamental paradigm shift in thinking about the nature of what leadership is in ­knowledge-based economies. As Margaret Wheatley (2001) states, organizations are ­trying to manage knowledge, which is “inherently invisible, incapable of being quantified, and born in relationships, not statistics.” This requires organizations to create the environment in which human potential is realized by working together in collaboration, generating or applying knowledge (e.g. Kanter, 2001; Meyerson, 2000), and creating what some refer to as social capital (e.g. Bilhuber Galli & Müller-Stewens, 2011; Day, 2000). The ­implications for leadership are considerable.

Unlike the models of ethical and authentic leadership, which still focus very clearly on the notion of leadership as a function of individuals occupying certain organizational roles, the concept of “distributed leadership” (DL) is grounded in the notion of leadership as a fluid and emergent property of a social process (Spillane, 2006), enacted by groups of individuals, or a network of interacting individuals (Gronn, 2000). DL conceptually overlaps with other approaches of a similar tenor, including the notions of “shared” (Pearce & Conger, 2003), “collaborative” (e.g. Raelin, 2006), and “democratic” leadership (Geer, 1996). Thorpe et al. (2011) assert that the terms “distributed” and “shared” leadership denote different, though related, concepts. DL is best regarded as describing a “structural” arrangement, whereby leadership responsibilities are delegated to individuals in different roles and at different levels in an organization; indeed, one of its strongest proponents describes it as “a new architecture for leadership” (Gronn, 2000). On the other hand, shared leadership describes a process through which leadership behavior is enacted.

Fletcher (2004), who uses the term “post-heroic” leadership rather “distributed,” believes that this conceptualization of leadership has three characteristics: (1) leadership as practice—shared and distributed; this moves it from the study of the characteristics of individuals in formal leadership roles “to conceptualize leadership as a set of shared practices that can and should be enacted by people at all levels” (p. 648); (2) leadership is a social process—“something that occurs in and through relationships and networks of influence” (p. 649); (3) leadership as outcome—“The kinds of social interactions that can be called leadership result in learning and growth for the organization as well as the people involved” and “that depends on the ability to create conditions where new knowledge—collective learning—can be co-created and implemented” (p. 649).

This perspective on defining leadership transforms the notion of “follower” from one of passive recipient in the leadership relationship to one of key actor in “doing leadership.” DL also transforms the status of “situation” from a mere contextual variable to the locus of leadership. For example, Spillane, a leading writer in the field of DL, regards “situation” as an important component of understanding leadership practice, stating: “My argument is not simply that situation is important to leadership practice, but that it actually constitutes leadership practice—situation defines leadership practice in interaction with leaders and followers. This way of thinking about situation differs substantially from prior work” (Spillane, 2006, p. 145).

There has been a strong tradition of applying the principles of DL in the education sector, and especially in relation to school leadership, where there is a wealth of literature on the subject (e.g. Bolden, 2011; Gronn, 2004, 2008; Harris, 2008; Spillane 2006; Spillane et al., 2001), but there has been increasing interest from other sectors (e.g. Thorpe et al., 2011). As far as empirical validation is concerned, most of this literature emanates from studies in schools relating to student learning, teacher effectiveness, and school improvement, and findings are mixed (see Bolden, 2011 for a review). Bolden also cites research which has suggested that the distribution of leadership can have a negative effect on team performance and lead to a reduced sense of stability and security and “boundary management issues” (Bolden, 2011, pp. 158–259). Other commentators have identified concerns in relation to how DL is adopted (e.g. Leithwood et al., 2006; Wright, 2008).

Space does not permit a comprehensive discussion of DL, but given the opportunities that it offers to explore a wholly new paradigm of leadership, and the possibilities it might offer in maximizing the realization of human potential in organizations ­facing the ­challenges of operating in knowledge-based economies, it undoubtedly deserves greater attention from researchers and practitioners.

Although researchers and commentators in the field of DL are critical of the inordinate emphasis on leader-centric models of leadership, many of whom are cited in the previous section, several are concerned that DL not be seen as the panacea for leadership (e.g. ­Bolden, 2011). Among the myths of DL that Spillane & Diamond (2007) dispel are (1) that DL is the new template for leadership and management; (2) that it disaffirms the need for a formal leader; and (3) that everyone is a leader (cited in Bolden, 2011, p. 257).

Formal leaders are still required to exercise their responsibility in managing staff and achieving organizational goals. The question then becomes for psychologists, how can leadership best be enacted by these individuals, such that they can create a culture in which the potential for DL is achieved, and which creates the conditions that encourage, facilitate, and sustain innovation, exploitation of ideas, and collective learning (Yukl, 1999).

It would seem reasonable to assume that for DL to be enacted effectively requires, or is more likely to succeed if there is, a high level of willingness among individuals to engage in activities that support both individual and organizational growth; indeed, Fletcher (2004) states this as a condition of such leadership. This brings us to the literature relating to employee engagement, which has become a major area of interest for organizations, not least because it has been found to be significantly associated with individual well-­being and performance, and positive organizational outcomes, including low turnover and absenteeism, high organizational commitment, and superior performance (e.g. ­Alimo-Metcalfe & Alban-Metcalfe, 2008; Bakker, 2009; Schaufeli & Bakker, 2004; ­Xanthopoulou et al., 2009).





2.2.9 Engaging leadership


Organizational psychologists have long been aware of the importance of employee attitudes to work in affecting levels of performance (e.g. Ajzen & Fishbein, 1980). Subsequent analyses by Judge et al. (2001) have found a significant relationship between job attitudes and individual levels of performance, while Harter & Schmidt (2008) add that this relationship extends to organizational outcomes such as increased profit, sales, and customer ratings, fewer accidents, and reduced staff turnover (Harter et al., 2002, 2010). Harter & Schmidt (2008) add that, “These practically important relationships are likely a reflection of differences in level of cognitive and emotional involvement and enthusiasm employees have for their work and companies, leading to discretionary effort, which in turn leads to a host of positive business outcomes” (p. 36).

Discretionary effort is at the heart of the potency of engagement in supporting the success of organizations.

Employee engagement is used at different times to refer to psychological states, traits, and behaviors, as well as their antecedents and outcomes. For example, Kahn (1990) regards engagement as the “harnessing of organizational members’ selves to their work role. In engagement, people employ and express themselves physically, cognitively, and emotionally during their role performance” (p. 694). Schaufeli et al. (2002) regard employee engagement as “a positive, fulfilling, work-related state of mind that is characterized by vigor, dedication, and absorption” (p. 74), while Wellings & Concelman (2005) suggest that engagement is “an amalgam of commitment, loyalty, productivity and ­ownership … [and that it is] the elusive force that motivates employees to higher (or lower) levels of performance.”

Some psychologists prefer to operationalize the exercise of discretionary behavior as “proactivity” (e.g. Belschak & Den Hartog, 2010; Crant, 2000; Frese & Fay, 2001; Parker, 2000; Sonnentag, 2003; Strauss et al., 2009). Den Hartog & Belschak (2007) focused on “personal initiative,” adopting the definition created by Frese & Fay (2001) that this is “work behavior characterized by its self-starting nature, by its proactive approach and by being persistent in overcoming difficulties that arise in the pursuit of a goal” (cited in Den Hartog & Belschak, 2007, p. 601). Crant (2000) defined “proactive behavior” as “taking the initiative in improving current circumstances; it involves challenging the status quo rather than passively adapting to present conditions” (p. 436). Such behavior can also be seen in the form of: adapting to new circumstances; offering to collaborate with others; putting in extra effort; increased personal, team, or organizational efficiency; innovation; and talking enthusiastically about one’s work, team, or organization (e.g. Thomas et al., 2010).

Strauss et al. (2009) maintain that prior to their investigation of the effect of transformational leadership on proactivity, there was no evidence of the influence of leadership, citing Frese et al. (1999) and Parker et al. (2006). Their own survey study did find evidence that transformational leadership had a significant impact on employee proactivity, but also that level of leadership was an important factor in distinguishing the form and specific aspect of impact. Leaders at a team level appear to facilitate proactivity by increasing employees’ confidence to initiate change, whereas transformational leadership of organizational leaders (i.e. senior managers) seems to increase proactivity by enhancing employees’ commitment to the organization.

While this finding provides valuable information regarding the association between leadership and proactivity and/or engagement, criticism of the instrument (the MLQ) on which the US model of transformational leadership is based (described in Section 2.2.4.1) is relevant. Most pertinent, in this context, is the fact that it was developed from the perceptions of “distant” leadership, on predominantly male samples, and typically based on self-report (e.g. Alimo-Metcalfe & Alban-Metcalfe, 2005; Watters, 2008).

These factors, combined with the intention of investigating the nature of “nearby,” day-to-day leadership, from the perspective of a gender- and ethnic-inclusive sample of staff, in UK public- and private-sector organizations, led Alimo-Metcalfe and Alban-Metcalfe to conduct a new investigation. They were interested in identifying specifically those behaviors which “had a particularly powerful effect on the staff’s motivation, job satisfaction, commitment, self-confidence, or performance” (Alimo-Metcalfe & Alban-Metcalfe, 2001). The criteria for identifying such leadership behaviors are relevant since they are similar to the outcomes that are assessed when ascertaining levels of engagement.

The researchers adopted a Grounded Theory approach (Parry, 1998) to eliciting constructs of “nearby” leadership using repertory-grid interviewing techniques (Kelly, 1955), and augmented these data with information from a literature review and focus groups (Alimo-Metcalfe & Alban-Metcalfe, 2001). The sample was deliberately inclusive in relation to age, ethnicity, gender, and level in the organization. Over 2000 behavioral constructs were content analyzed independently by two psychologists (a female and a male), a pilot instrument was developed and distributed among 200+ UK organizations (local government and health), and over 2000 responses were factor analyzed (Alimo-Metcalfe & Alban-Metcalfe, 2001). This resulted in the development of an instrument, the Transformational Leadership Questionnaire (TLQ), which describes the model of “engaging” transformational leadership. The reliability and validity of this instrument have now been well established among a wide range of private and not-for-profit organizations (e.g. Alban-Metcalfe & Alimo-Metcalfe, 2000, 2007; Alimo-Metcalfe & Alban-Metcalfe, 2001, 2005, 2006; Alimo-Metcalfe et al., 2011; Dobby et al., 2004; Kelly et al., 2006).

The research version of the TLQ includes six scales (Alimo-Metcalfe & Alban-­Metcalfe, 2005), and the developmental 360 model includes an additional eight scales, which emerged from the items excluded from the original factor analysis (Alimo-­Metcalfe & Alban-Metcalfe, 2006). Figure 2.1 describes the total of 14 scales that make up the 360 instrument. These have been arranged in four clusters, which include the leadership scales relating to the four aspects of engaging leadership: (i) personal qualities and values; (ii) engaging individuals; (iii) engaging the organization; and (iv) moving forward together (which includes engaging with the wider range of internal and external stakeholders, and behaviors that encourage cross-organization and ­inter-organization ­partnership working).

Figure 2.1 The Transformational Leadership Questionnaire (TLQ) ™ Training Manual. (2004). Leeds: Real World Group.



The tenor of the model reflects both a servant leadership and a DL approach, while recognizing formal leadership responsibilities. Ten “facets” of the impact on direct reports are included in the 360 instrument. These facets, which are measures of attitudes to work (including job satisfaction, motivation, and job and organizational ­commitment) and employee engagement as evidenced by an independent study (van der Kleij, 2011), and well-being at work (including reduced job-related stress) (e.g. ­Alimo-Metcalfe et al., 2008), enable the determination of the criterion validity and discriminant validity of the TLQ.

More recently, as a result of a longitudinal investigation which adopted a measure of team culture based on the dimensions of this engaging leadership model, a cause–effect relationship has been found between a culture of engaging leadership and the productivity of multiprofessional teams, where productivity was measured objectively (Alimo-­Metcalfe & Bradley, in preparation; Alimo-Metcalfe et al., 2007, 2008). The research, which involved a national sample of n = 741, controlled for the effect of contextual factors including the multi-disciplinary composition of the team.





2.3 Conclusion


This review has sought to critically review major models of leadership that have reflected the historical developments in leadership theory. Unfortunately, because of space limitations, some models have not been discussed, including the relatively new notion of “public integrative leadership” (see Leadership Quarterly Special Issue, 21(2), 2010), and spiritual leadership (see Leadership Quarterly Special Issue, 16(5), 2005). It is hoped that students of the topic will read primary source materials, so that they can adopt a critical stance when reviewing any specific aspects of the literature.

The increasing interest in the subject of leadership reflects the considerable importance of this phenomenon. As younger generations of researchers become the commentators of the future, the forces that have influenced their socialization, their hopes, and their experiences will produce new and exciting perspectives on this fascinating subject.

With the combined forces of globalization, and the influence of advances in social ­media, the wealth of new models and theories should increase exponentially. The ­enormous speed of growth of new economies will, hopefully, lead to a richer range of perspectives on the topic, which, by virtue of their very diversity, will also bring challenges. It is time for the leadership literature to be enriched by the influence of deeper multicultural studies than could have been described by the pioneering and visionary GLOBE project, initiated by Robert House in 1993 (e.g. House et al., 2004). It is hoped that the business schools will also adopt and encourage an open, multicultural, and critical approach to the texts they recommend and the models they discuss.





References


Ajzen, I. & Fishbein, M. (1980). Understanding Attitudes and Predicting Social Behavior. Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice-Hall.

Alban-Metcalfe, R.J. & Alimo-Metcalfe, B. (2000). An analysis of the convergent and discriminant validity of the Transformational Leadership Questionnaire. International Journal of Selection & Assessment, 8(3), 158–175.

Alimo-Metcalfe, B. (1995). An investigation of female and male constructs of leadership and ­empowerment. Women in Management Review, 10(2), 3–8.

Alimo-Metcalfe, B. (2004). Leadership: a masculine past, but a feminine future? In Gender & Excellence in the Making, a Report of the European Commission, Women & Science Unit, Joint Research Centre. Luxembourg, Office for Official Publications of the European Communities.

Alimo-Metcalfe, B. (2010) Developments in gender and leadership: introducing a new “inclusive” model. Gender in Management: An International Journal, 25(8), 630–639.

Alimo-Metcalfe, B. (2011). Les sexes et le leadership: un plafond de verre ou de béton armé? In L. Côté Louis, editor. La gouvernance: Frontières, Dispositifs et Agents. Québec: Presses de l’Université du Québec.

Alimo-Metcalfe, B. & R.J. Alban-Metcalfe (2001). The development of a new transformational leadership questionnaire. The Journal of Occupational & Organizational Psychology, 74, 1–27.

Alimo-Metcalfe, B. & Alban-Metcalfe, J. (2005). Leadership: time for a new direction? Leadership, 1, 51–71.

Alban-Metcalfe, J. & Alimo-Metcalfe, B. (2007). The development of the private sector version of the (Engaging) Transformational Leadership Questionnaire. Leadership & Organisational Development Journal, 28(2), 104–121.

Alimo-Metcalfe, B. & Alban-Metcalfe, J. (2006). More (good) leaders for the public sector. International Journal of Public Sector Management, 19(4), 293–315.

Alimo-Metcalfe, B. & Alban-Metcalfe, J. (2008). Engaging Leadership: Creating Organisations that Maximise the Potential of Their People. London: CIPD.

Alimo-Metcalfe, B., Alban-Metcalfe, J., Bradley, M., Mariathasan, J., & Samele, C. (2008). The impact of engaging leadership on performance, attitudes to work and well-being at work: a longitudinal study. The Journal of Health Organization and Management, 22(6), 586–598.

Alimo-Metcalfe, B., Alban-Metcalfe, J., Bradley, M., & Alban-Metcalfe, J. (2011). The impact of an engaging style of leadership on staff attitudes to work and wellbeing: evidence of criterion and “predictive” validity in a Primary Care and a Secondary Care (Acute) Hospital Trust. Paper presented at the British Academy of Management Conference, Birmingham, September 13–15.

Alimo-Metcalfe, B., Alban-Metcalfe, J., Samele, C. Bradley, M., & Mariathasan, J. (2007) The impact of leadership factors in implementing change in complex health and social care environments: NHS Plan clinical priority for mental health crisis resolution teams (CRTs). Department of Health NHS SDO, Project 22/2002.

Antonakis, J. & Atwater, L. (2002). Leader distance: a review and a proposed theory. Leadership Quarterly, 13(6), 673–704.

Ashford, S.J. (1989). Self-assessments in organizations: a literature review and integrative model. In L.L. Cummings & B.W. Staw, editors. Research in Organizational Behavior, 11. Greenwich, CT: JAI Press. pp. 133 − 174.

Avery, G.C. (2004). Understanding Leadership: Paradigms and Cases. London: Sage.

Avolio, B.J. (1999). Full Leadership Development: Building the Vital Forces in Organizations. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage.

Avolio, B.J. & Gardner, W.L. (2005). Authentic leadership development: getting to the root of positive forms of leadership. Leadership Quarterly, 16, 315–338.

Avolio, B.J., Gardner, W.L., & Walumbwa, F.O. (2007). The Authentic Leadership Questionnaire. Redwood City, CA: Mindgarden.

Avolio, B.J., Gardner, W.L., Walumbwa, F.O., Luthans, F., & May, D.R. (2004). Unlocking the mask: a look at the process by which authentic leaders impact follower attitudes and behaviors. Leadership Quarterly, 15, 801–823.

Avolio, B.J., Walumbwa, F.O., & Weber, T.J. (2009). Leadership: current theories, research, and future directions. Annual Review of Psychology, 60, 421–449.

Avolio, B.J., Yammarino, F., & Bass, B. (1991). Identifying common methods variance with data collected from a single source: an unresolved sticky issue. Journal of Management, 17(3), 571–587.

Avolio, B.J., Zhu, W., Koh, W.L., & Bhatia, P. (2004). Transformational leadership and organizational commitment: mediating role of psychological empowerment and moderating role of structural distance. Journal of Organizational Behavior, 25, 951–968.

Bakker, A. B. (2009). Building engagement in the workplace. In C.L. Cooper & R.J. Burke, editors. The Peak Performing Organization. Oxon, UK: Routledge. pp. 50–72.

Bandura, A. (1986). Social Foundation of Thought and Action. Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey: Prentice-Hall.

Barling, J., Loughlin, C.A., & Kelloway, E.K. (2002). Development and test of a model linking safety-specific transformational leadership and occupational injuries. Journal of Applied Psychology, 87, 488–496.

Barling, J., Weber, T., & Kelloway, E.K. (1996). Effects of transformational leadership training on attitudinal & financial outcomes: a field experiment. Journal of Applied Psychology, 81(6), 827–832.

Bass, B.M. (1997). Does the transactional-transformational leadership paradigm transcend organizational and national boundaries? American Psychologist, 52, 130–139.

Badaracco, J.L. (2002). Leading Quietly: An Unorthodox Guide to Doing the Right Thing. Harvard, MA: Harvard Business School Press.

Bales, R.F. (1954). In conference. Harvard Business Review, 32(2), 44–50.

Bass, B.M. (1985). Leadership and Performance beyond Expectations. London: The Free Press.

Bass, B.M. (1990). Bass and Stodgill’s Handbook of Leadership: Theory, Research, and Applications, 3rd edition. New York: The Free Press.

Bass, B.M. (1998). Transformational Leadership: Industrial, Military, and Educational Impact. Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates.

Bass, B.M. & Avolio, B.J. (1993). Transformational leadership and organizational culture. Public Administration Quarterly, 17, 112–121.

Bass, B.M. & Avolio, B.J. (2004). Multifactor leadership questionnaire: manual leader form, rater, and scoring key for MLQ (Form 5x-Short). Redwood City, CA: Mind Garden

Bass, B.M. & Steidlmeier, P. (1999). Ethics, character, and authentic transformational leadership behavior. Leadership Quarterly, 10(2), 181–217.

Belschak, F.D. & Den Hartog, D.N. (2010). Different foci of proactive behaviour: the role of transformational leadership. Journal of Occupational and Organizational Psychology, 83, 267–273.

Bennis, W. & Nanus, B. (1985) Leaders. New York: Harper & Row.

Bilhuber Galli, E. & Müller-Stewens, G. (2011). How to build social capital with leadership development: lessons from an explorative case study of a multibusiness firm. Leadership Quarterly. In press; available online at http://www.sciencedirect.com/science?_ob=ArticleListURL&_method=list&_ArticleListID=1860400770&_sort=r&_st=13&view=c&_acct=C000005458&_version=1&_urlVersion=0&_userid=5944594&md5=fea79b928f4e55ffd65d9daad462ad99&searchtype=a.

Blanchard, K., Zigarmi, D., & Nelson, R. (1993). Situational leadership after 25 years: a ­retrospective. Journal of Leadership Studies, 1(1), 22–36.

Bligh, M.C., Kohles, J.C., & Pillai, R. (2011). Romancing leadership: past, present, and future. Leadership Quarterly, 22, 1058–1077.

Bolden, R. (2011). Distributed leadership in organisations: a review of theory & research. International Journal of Management Reviews, 13, 251–269.

Booysen, L.A.E. (2002). Addressing challenges facing black and white women managers in South Africa. Siren: Journal of the Institute for Gender Studies, 9(1), 4–13.

Booysen, L.A.E. & Nkomo, S.M. (2010). Gender role stereotypes and requisite management ­characteristics: the case of South Africa. Gender in Management: An International Journal, 25(4), 285–300.

Brown, M.E. & Treviño, L.K. (2006). Ethical leadership: a review and future directions. Leadership Quarterly, 17, 595–616.

Brown, M.E., Treviño, L.K., & Harrison, D.A. (2005). Ethical leadership: a social learning ­perspective for construct development and testing. Organizational Behavior and Human Decision Processes, 97, 117–134.

Bryman, A. (1993). Charismatic leadership in business organizations: some neglected issues. Leadership Quarterly, 4(3/4), 289–304.

Bryman, A. (1996). Leadership in organizations. In S.R. Clegg, C. Hardy, & W.R. Nord, editors. Handbook of Organizational Studies. London: Sage. pp. 276–292.

Bums, J.M. (1978) Leadership. New York: Harper & Row.

Calas, M.B. and Smircich, L. (1996). From the women’s point of view: feminist approaches to organisation studies. In S.R. Clegg, C. Hardy, & W. Nord, editors. Handbook of Organization Studies. London: Sage. pp. 218–257.

Callahan, D. (2004). The Cheating Culture: Why More Americans Are Doing Wrong to Get Ahead. London: Harcourt.

Carless, S.A., (1998). Assessing the discriminant validity of transformational leader behaviour as measured by the MLQ. Journal of Occupational and Organizational Psychology, 71, 353–358.

Carnes, K.C. & Keithley, J.P. (1992). Does the limited tenure of internal auditors hamper fraud detection? Business & professional Ethics Journal, 12, 3–25.

Chang, S., van Witteloostuijn, A., and Eden, L. (2010). Editorial: common method variance in international business research. Journal of International Business Studies, 41, 178–184.

Chonko, L.B. & Hunt, S.D. (1985). Ethics & marketing management: an empirical examination. Journal of Business Research, 13, 339–359.

Cole, M.S., Bruch, H., & Shamir, B. (2009). Social distance as a moderator of the effects of transformational leadership: both neutralizer and enhancer. Human Relations, 62(11), 1697–1733.

Cole, E.B. & Coultrap-McQuin, S. (1992) Toward a feminist conception of moral life. In E.B. Cole & S. Coultrap-McQuin, editors. Explorations in Feminist Ethics. Bloomington, IN: Indiana University Press. pp. 1–11.

Conger, J.A. (1989). The Charismatic Leader: Behind the Mystique of Exceptional Leadership. San Francisco, CA: Jossey-Bass.

Conger, J.A. (1990). The dark side of leadership. Organizational Dynamics, 19, 44–45.

Conger, J.A. (1999). Charismatic and transformational leadership in organizations: an insider’s perspective on these developing streams of research. Leadership Quarterly, 10(2), 145–169.

Conger, J.A. (1998). Qualitative research as the cornerstone methodology for understanding leadership. Leadership Quarterly, 9, 107–121.

Conger, J.A. & R.N. Kanungo, editors (1988). Charismatic Leadership: The Elusive Factor in Organizational Effectiveness. San Francisco, CA: Jossey-Bass.

Conger, J.A. & R. N. Kanungo, editors (1998). Charismatic Leadership in Organizations. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage Publications

Cook, J. & Wall, T. (1980). New work attitude measures of trust, organizational commitment and personal need non-fulfillment. Journal of Occupational Psychology, 53, 39–52.

Crant, J.M. (2000). Practive behaviour in organisations. Journal of Management, 26(3), 435–462.

Crown, D.F. & Spiller, M.S. (1998). Learning from the literature on collegiate cheating: a review of empirical research. Journal of Business Ethics, 17, 683–700.

Dansereau, F., Alutto, J., & Yammarino, F.J. (1984). Theory Testing in Organizational Behavior: The Variant Approach. Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice-Hall.

Dansereau, F., Graen, G., & Haga, B.A. (1975). A vertical-dyad linkage approach to leadership within formal organizations: a longitudinal investigation of the role making process. Organizational Behavior & Human Performance, 13, 46–78.

Dawson, L.M. (1997). Ethical differences between men & women in the sales profession. Journal of Business Ethics, 16(11), 1143–1152.

Day, D.V. (2000). Leadership development: a review in context. Leadership Quarterly, 11(4), 581.

De Hoogh, A.H.B. & Den Hartog, D.N. (2008). Ethical and despotic leadership, relationships with leader’s social responsibility, top management team effectiveness and subordinates’ optimism: a multi-method study. Leadership Quarterly, 19, 297–311.

Den Hartog, D.N., House, R.J., Hanges, P.J., Ruiz-Quintanilla, S.A., Dorfman, P.W., et al. (1999). Culturally specific and cross-culturally generalizable implicit leadership theories: are attributes of charismatic/transformational leadership universally endorsed? The Leadership Quarterly, 10, 219–256.

Dionne, S.D., Yammarino, F.J., Atwater, L.E., & James, L.R. (2002). Neutralizing substitutes for leadership theory: leadership effects and common-source bias. Journal of Applied Psychology, 87, 454–464.

Dobby, J.A. & Tuffin, R. (2004). Police Leadership: Expectations and Impact. London: Home Office Online Report 20/04.

Dubinsky, A.J. & Ingram, T.N. (1984). Ethics in retailing: perceptions of retail salespeople. Journal of Academy of Marketing Science, 13, 1–16.

Dubinsky, A.J. & Levy, M. (1985). Ethics in retailing: perceptions of retail salespeople. Journal of the Academy of Marketing Science, 13, 1–16.

Eagly, A.H. (2007). Female leadership advantage & disadvantage: resolving the contradictions. Psychology of Women Quarterly, 31, 1–12.

Eagly, A.H., Makhijani, M.G., & Klonsky, B.G. (1992). Gender and the evaluation of leaders: a meta-analysis. Psychological Bulletin, 111, 2–33.

Etzioni, A. (2002). When it comes to ethics, B-schools get an F. The Washington Post, August 4th, p. B4.

Ferrell, O.C. & Skinner, S.J. (1988). Ethical behaviour and bureaucratic structure in marketing research organizations. Journal of Marketing Research, 25, 103–109.

Fiedler, F.E. (1964). A contingency model of leadership effectiveness. In L. Berkovitz, editor. Advances in Experimental Social Psychology, volume 1. New York: Academic Press. pp. 149–190.

Fiedler, F.E. (1967). A Theory of Leadership Effectiveness. New York: McGraw-Hill.

Fiedler, F.E. (1972). Personality, motivational systems, and behavior of high and low LPC persons. Human Relations, 25(5), 391–412.

Fiedler, F.E. & Chemers, M.M. (1974). Leadership and Effective Management. Glenview, IL: Scott, Foresman.

Fletcher, J. (2004). The paradox of post-heroic leadership: an essay on gender, power, and transformational change. Leadership Quarterly, 15(5), 647–661.

Fleenor, J.W., Smither, J.W., Atwater, L.E., Braddy, P.W., & Sturm, R.E. (2010). Self–other rating agreement in leadership: a review. Leadership Quarterly, 21, 1005–1034.

Foschi, M. (2000). Double standards for competence: theory and research. Annual Review of Sociology, 26, 21–42.

Frese, M. and Fay, D. (2001). Personal initiative: an active performance concept for work in the 21st century. Research in Organizational Behavior, 23, 133–187.

Frese, M., Teng, E., & Wijnen, C.J. (1999). Helping to improve suggestion systems: predictors of making suggestions in companies. Journal of Organizational Behavior, 20, 1139–1156.

Fritzsche, D.J. (1988). An examination of marketing ethics: role of the decision maker, consequences of the decision, management position, and sex of the respondent. Journal of Macromarketing, 8, 29–39.

Furnham, A. (2004). The Dark Side of Behaviour at Work. Palgrave Macmillan.

Furnham, A. (2005). The Icarus syndrome. Presentation to the British Psychological Society Annual Occupational Psychology Conference, Warwickshire, January.

Furnham, A. (2010). The Elephant in the Boardroom: The Causes of Leadership Derailment. Palgrave Macmillan.

Gardner, W.L., Avolio, B.J., Luthans, F., May, D.R., & Walumbwa, F.O. (2005). Can you see the real me? A self-based model of authentic leader and follower development. Leadership Quarterly, 16, 434–372.

Gardner, W.L., Lowe, K.B., Moss, T.W., Mahoney, K.T., & Cogliser, C.C. (2010). Scholarly ­leadership of the study of leadership: a review of The Leadership Quarterly’s second decade, 2000–2009. Leadership Quarterly, 21(6), 922–958.

Geer, J.G. (1996). From Tea Leaves to Opinion Polls: A Theory of Democratic Leadership. New York: Columbia University Press.

Gibb, C.A. (1947). The principles and traits of leadership. Journal of Abnormal and Social Psychology, 4, 267–284.

Gilligan, C. (1982). In a Different Voice. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.

Graen, G.B. (1976). Role making processes within complex organizations. In M.D. Dunnette, editor. Handbook of Industrial & Organizational Psychology. Chicago: Rand McNally. pp. 1202–1245

Graen, G.B. & Cashman, J. (1975). A role-making model of leadership in formal organizations: a developmental approach. In J.G. Hunt & L.L. Larson, editor. Leadership Frontiers. Kent, OH: Kent State University Press. pp. 143–166.

Graen, G.B. & Uhl-Bien, M. (1995). Development of leader-member exchange (LMX) theory of leadership over 25 years: applying a multi-level multi-domain perspective. Leadership Quarterly, 6, 219–247.

Graen, G. & Schiemann, W. (1978). Leader-member agreement: a vertical dyad linkage approach. Journal of Applied Psychology, 63, 206–212.

Granitz, N. & Loewy, D. (2007). Applying ethical theories: Interpreting and responding to student plagiarism. Journal of Business Ethics, 72(3), 293–306.

Gough, H.G. (1990). Testing for leadership with the California Psychological Inventory. In K.E. Clark & M.B. Clark, editors. Measures of Leadership. West Orange, NJ: Leadership Library of America. pp. 355–379.

Grandey, A.A., Fiske, G.M., Mattila, A.S., Jansen, K.J., & Sideman, L.A. (2005). Is “service with a smile” enough? Authenticity of positive displays during service encounters. Organizational Behavior and Human Decision Processes, 96: 38–55.

Greenleaf, R.K. (1970). The Servant as Leader. San Francisco, CA: Jossey-Bass.

Greenleaf, R.K. (1996). On Becoming a Servant Leader. San Francisco, CA: Jossey-Bass.

Gronn, P. (2000). Distributed properties: a new architecture for leadership. Educational Management and Administration, 28(3), 317–338.

Gronn, P. (2004). Distribution of leadership. In G.R. Goethals, G.J. Sorenson, & J. MacGregor Burns, editors. Encyclopedia of Leadership, volume 1. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage. pp. 351–355.

Gronn, P. (2008). The future of distributed leadership. Journal of Educational Administration, 46(2), 141–158.

Harris, A, (2008). Distributed leadership: according to the evidence. Journal of Educational Administration, 46(2), 172–188.

Harris, M.M. & Schaubroeck, J. (1988). A meta-analysis of self-supervisor, self-peer, and peer-supervisor ratings. Personnel Psychology, 41, 43–62.

Harris, K.J., Wheeler, A.R., & Kacmar, K.M. (2009). Leader-member exchange and empowerment: direct & interactive effects on job satisfaction, turnover intentions, and performance. Leadership Quarterly, 20, 371–382.

Harter, N. & Evanecky, D. (2002). Fairness in leader-member exchange theory: do we all belong on the inside? Leadership Review, 2(2), 1–7.

Harter, J.K. & Schmidt, F.L. (2008). Conceptual versus empirical distinctions among constructs: implications for discriminant validity. Industrial and Organizational Psychology, 1(1), 36–39.

Harter, J.K., Schmidt, F.L., Asplund, J.W., Killum, E.A., & Agrawa, S. (2010). Causal impact of employee work perceptions on the bottom line of organizations. Perspectives on Psychological Science, 5(4), 378–389.

Harter, J.K., Schmidt, F.L., & Hayes, T.L. (2002). Business-unit-level relationship between employee satisfaction, employee engagement, and business outcomes: a meta-analysis. Journal of Applied Psychology, 87, 268–279.

Heilman, M.E. (1983). Sex bias in work settings: the lack of fit model. In B.M. Staw & L.L. Cummings, editors. Research in Organizational Behavior, 5. Greenwich, CT: JAI Press.

Hersey, P. & Blanchard, K.H. (1969). A life-cycle theory of leadership. Training & Development Journal, 23, 26–34.

Hersey, P. & Blanchard, K.H. (1988). Management of Organizational Behavior: Utilizing Human Resources, 5th edition. Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice Hall.

Hogan, R., Curphy, G.J., & Hogan, J. (1994). What we know about leadership: effectiveness and personality. American Psychologist, 49(6), 493–505.

Hogan, R. & Hogan, J. (2001). Assessing leadership: a view from the dark side. International Journal of Selection and Assessment, 9, 40–51.

Hogan, R., Raskin, R., & Fazzini, D. (1990). The dark side of charisma. In K.E. Clark et al., editors. Measures of Leadership. West Orange, NJ: Leadership Library of America. pp. 343–354.

Hollander, E.P. & Julian, J.W. (1978). A further look at leader legitimacy, influence, and innovation. In L. Berkowitz, editor. Group Processes. New York: Academic Press. pp. 153–165.

Hoogh, A.H.B., den, den Hartog, D.N., Koopman, P.L., Berg, H.T., van den Berg, P.T., van der Weide, J.G., & Wilderom, C.P.M. (2004). Charismatic leadership, environmental dynamism & performance. European Journal of Work and Organizational Psychology, 13(4), 447–471.

House, R.J. (1971). A path goal theory of leader effectiveness. Administrative Science Quarterly, 16, 321–338.

House, R.J. (1977). A 1976 theory of charismatic leadership. In J.G. Hunt & L.L. Larson, editors. Leadership: The Cutting Edge. Carbondale, IL: Southern Illinois University Press. pp. 189–207.

House, R.J., et al., editors. (2004) Culture, Leadership, and Organizations: The GLOBE Study of 62 Societies. London: Sage.

House, R.J. & Aditya, R.N. (1997). The social scientific study of leadership: quo vadis? Journal of Management, 23(3), 409–473.

House, R.J., Hanges, P.J., Ruiz-Quintanilla, S.A., Dorfman, P.W., Javidan, M., Dickson, M., Gupta, V., & associates (1999). Cultural influences on leadership and organizations: Project Globe. Advances in Global Leadership, 1, 171–233.

House, R.J. & Howell, J.M. 1992. Personality and charismatic leadership. Leadership Quarterly, 3, 81–108.

Howell, J.M. 1988. Two faces of charisma: socialized and personalized leadership in organizations. In J.A. Conger & R.N. Kanungo, editors. Charismatic Leadership: The Elusive Factor in Organizational Effectiveness. San Francisco: Jossey-Bass. pp. 213–236.

Hunt, J.G. (2004). What is leadership? In J. Antonakis, A.T. Cianciolo, & R.J. Sternberg, editors. The Nature of Leadership. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage. pp. 19–47.

Hunt, J.G. & Peterson, M.F. (1997) Two scholars’ views of some nooks and crannies in cross-cultural leadership. Leadership Quarterly, 8, 343–354.

Jacobson, S.W. & Jacques, R. (1990). Of knowers, knowing, and the known: a gender framework for revisioning organizational and management scholarship. Paper presented to The Academy of Management Annual Meeting, San Francisco, August 10–12th.

Jenkins, W.O. (1947). A. review of leadership studies with particular reference to military problems. Psychological Bulletin, 44, 54–79.

Jermier, J.M. & Kerr, S. (1997). Substitutes for leadership: their meaning and measurement—contextual recollections and current observations. Leadership Quarterly, 8, 95–101.

Jing, F.F. & Avery, G.C. (2008). Missing links in understanding the relationship between leadership and organizational performance. International Business & Economics Research Journal, 7(5), 67–78.

Judge, T.A. & Bono, J.E. (2000). Five-factor model of personality and transformational leadership. Journal of Applied Psychology, 85(5), 751–765.

Judge, T.A., Bono, J.E., Ilies, R., & Gerhardt, M.W. (2002). Personality & leadership: a qualitative & quantitative review. Journal of Applied Psychology, 87(4), 765–780.

Judge, T.A & Piccolo, R.F. (2004). Transformational & transactional leadership: a meta-analytic test of their validity. Journal of Applied Psychology, 89(5), 755–768.

Judge, T.A., Thoresen, C.J., Bono, J.E., & Patton, G.K. (2001). The job satisfaction-job performance relationship: a qualitative and quantitative review. Psychological Bulletin, 127, 376–407.

Kahn, W.A. (1990). Psychological conditions of personal engagement and disengagement. Academy of Management Journal, 33(4), 692–724.

Kahn, R.L. & Katz, D. (1953). Leadership practices in relation to productivity and morale. In D. Cartwright & A. Zander, editors. Group Dynamics. New York: Harper & Row.

Kalshoven, K. & Den Hartog, D.N. (2009). Ethical leader behavior and leader effectiveness: the role of prototypicality and trust. International Journal of Leadership Studies, 5(2), 102–120.

Kalshoven, K., Den Hartog, D.N., & De Hoogh, A.H.B. (2011). Ethical leadership at work questionnaire (ELW): development and validation of a multidimensional measure. Leadership Quarterly, 22(1), 51–69.

Kanter, R.M. (2001). E-volve! Cambridge, MA: Harvard Business School Press.

Kark, R. (2004). The transformational leader: who is (s)he? A feminist perspective. Journal of Organizational Change Management, 17(2), 160–176.

Keller, R.T. (2006). Transformational leadership, initiating structure & substitutes for leadership: a longitudinal study of research & development project team performance. Journal of Applied Psychology, 91(1), 202–210.

Kelly, G.A. (1955). The Psychology of Personal Constructs, volumes 1 & 2. New York: Norton.

Kelly, A., Johnson, P., & Gill, R. (2006). Time for change: a UK model of transformational leadership. Paper presented at the British Academy of Management Conference, September 13th, Belfast.

Kenny, D.A. & Zaccaro, S.J. (1983). An estimate of variance due to traits in leadership. Journal of Applied Psychology, 68, 678–685.

Kidwell, J., Stevens, R., & Bechke, A. (1987). Differences in ethical perceptions between male and female managers: myth or reality? Journal of Business Ethics, 6, 451–457.

Klein, K.J. & House, R.J. (1995). On fire: charismatic leadership and levels of analysis. Leadership Quarterly, 6(2), 183–198.

Klein, H.A., Levenburg, N.M., McKendall, M., & Mothersell, W. (2007). Cheating during the college years: how do business school students compare? Journal of Business Ethics, 72, 197–206.

Koene, B.A.S., Vogelaar, A.L.W., & Soeters, J.L. (2002). Leadership effects on organizational climate & financial performance: local leadership effect in chain organizations. Leadership Quarterly, 13, 193–215.

Kohlberg, L. (1958). The Development of Modes of Thinking and Choices in Years 10 to 16. PhD Dissertation, University of Chicago.

Kohlberg, L. (1973). The claim to moral adequacy of a highest stage of moral judgment. Journal of Philosophy, 70(18), 630–646.

Kohlberg, L. & Turiel, E. (1971). Moral development and moral education. In G. Lesser, editor. Psychology and Educational Practice. Scott Foresman.

Larson, L.L., Hunt, J.G., & Osbom, R.N. (1974). Correlates of leadership and demographic variables in three organizational settings. Journal of Business Research, 2, 335–347.

Leithwood, K., Day, C., Sammons, P., Harris, A., & Hopkins, D. (2006). Successful School Leadership: What it is and How Much it Influences Pupil Learning. Nottingham: DfES Publications.

Leadership Quarterly (2005). Special Issue: Towards a Paradigm of Spiritual Leadership, 16, 5.

Leadership Quarterly (2010). Special Issue: Public Integrative Leadership, 21, 2.

Liden, R.C. & Antonakis, J. (2009). Considering context in psychological research. Human Relations, 62(11), 1587–1605.

Liden, R.C., Wayne, S.J., Zhao, H., & Henderson, D. (2008). Servant leadership: development of a multidimensional measure and multi-level assessment. Leadership Quarterly, 19, 161–177.

Likert, R. (1961). New Patterns of Management. New York: McGraw-Hill.

Lim, B.C. & Ployhart, R.E. (2004). Transformational leadership: relations to the five-factor model and team performance in typical and maximum contexts. Journal of Applied Psychology, 89, 610–621.

Lipman-Blumen, J. (2004). The Allure of Toxic Leaders: Why We Follow Destructive Bosses and Corrupt Politicians—And How We Can Survive Them. Oxford: Oxford University Press.

Lord, R.G., De Vader, C.L., & Allinger, G.M. (1986). A meta-analysis of the relationship between personality traits and leadership perceptions: an application of validity generalization procedures. Journal of Applied Psychology, 71, 402–410.

Lord, R.G., Foti, R.J., & DeVader, C.L. (1984). A test of leadership categorization theory. Organizational Behavior and Human Performance, 34, 343–378.

Lord, R.G., Foti, R.J., & Phillips, J.S. (1982). A theory of leadership categorization. In: J.G. Hunt, U. Sekaran, & C.A. Schriesheim, editors. Leadership: Beyond Establishment Views. Carbondale: Southern Illinois University Press. pp. 104–121.

Lowe, K.B. & Gardner, W.L. (2000). Ten years of leadership quarterly: contributions and challenges for the future. Leadership Quarterly, 11, 459–514.

Lowe, K.B., Kroeck, K.G., & Sivasubramaniam, N. (1996) Effectiveness of correlates of transformational & transactional leadership: a meta-analytic review of the MLQ literature. Leadership Quarterly, 7, 385–425.

Luthans, F. & Avolio, B. J. 2003. Authentic leadership development. In K.S. Cameron, J.E. Dutton, & R.E. Quinn, editors. Positive Organizational Scholarship. San Francisco: Berrett-Koehler. pp. 241–258.

Lyness, K.S. & Heilman, M.E. (2006). When fit is fundamental: performance evaluations & promotions of upper-level female & male managers. Journal of Applied Psychology, 91(4), 777–785.

Mabe, P. & West, J. (1982). Validity of self-evaluation of ability: a review and meta-analysis. Journal of Applied Psychology, 67, 280–296.

McCabe, D.L., Butterfield, K.D., & Trevino, L.K. (2006). Academic dishonesty in graduate business programs: prevalence, causes, and proposed action. Academy of Management Learning & Education, 5(3), 294–305.

McCabe, D.L., Trevino, L.K., and Butterfield, K.D. (2001). Cheating in academic institutions: a decade of research. Ethics and Behavior, 11(3), 219–232.

McAllister, D.J. (1995). Affect- and cognition-based trust as foundations for interpersonal cooperation in organizations. Academy of Management Journal, 38, 24–59.

Mangham, I. (2011). Leadership, ethics and integrity. In J. Storey, editor. Leadership in Organizations: Current Issues & Key Trends. London: Routledge.

Mann, F.C. (1965). Toward an understanding of the leadership role in formal organization. In R. Dublin, editor. Leadership and Productivity. San Francisco: Chandler. pp. 68–103.

Mann, R.D. (1959). A review of the relationship between personality and performance in small groups. Psychological Bulletin, 56, 241–270.

May, D.R., Chan, A., Hodges, T., & Avolio, B.J. (2003). Developing the moral component of authentic leadership. Organizational Dynamics, 32, 247–260.

Meindl, J.R., Ehrlich, S.B., & Dukerich, J.M. (1985). The romance of leadership. Administrative Science Quarterly, 30, 78–102.

Meyerson, D. (2000). Tempered Radicals. Cambridge: Harvard Business School Press.

Mintzberg, H. (1999). Managing quietly. Leader to Leader, Spring, http://www.pfdf.org/knowledgecenter/journal.aspx?ArticleID=54. Accessed 06/12.

Mowday, R.T., Steers, R.M., & Porter, L.W. (1979). The measurement of organizational commitment. Journal of Vocational Behavior, 14, 224–247.

Naidoo, L.J., Scherbaum, C.A., & Goldstein, H.W. (2008). Examining the relative importance of leader-member exchange on group performance over time. In G.B. Graen and J.A. Graen, ­editors. Knowledge Driven Corporation: A Discontinuous Model. LMX leadership: The Series, volume 5. Charlotte, NC: Information Age. pp. 211–230.

Northouse, P.G. (2010). Leadership: Theory and Practice, 5th edition. London: Sage.

O’Connor, J., Mumford, M.D., Clifton, T.C., Gessner, T.L., & Connelly, M.S. (1995). Charismatic leaders and destructiveness: an historiometric study. Leadership Quarterly, 6(4), 529–555.

Parker, S.K. (2000). From passive to proactive motivation: the importance of flexible role orientations and role breadth self-efficacy. Applied Psychology: An International Review, 49, 447–469.

Parry, K.W. (1998). Grounded theory and social process: a new direction in leadership research. Leadership Quarterly, 9(1), 85–105.

Pazy, A. & Oron, I. (2001). Sex proportion and performance evaluation among high-ranking military officers. Journal of Organizational Behavior, 22, 689–702.

Pearce, C.L. & Conger, J.A. (2003). Shared Leadership: Reframing the Hows and Whys of Leadership. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage

Peters, L.H., Hartke, D.D., & Pohlman, J.T. (1985). Fiedler’s contingency model of leadership: an application of the meta-analysis procedure of Schmidt and Hunter. Psychological Bulletin, 97, 274–285.

Pillai, R. & Williams, E.A. (2004). Transformational leadership, self-efficacy, group cohesiveness, commitment, and performance. Journal of Organizational Change Management, 17(2), 144–159.

Platow, M.J. & van Knippenberg, D. (2001). A social identity analysis of leadership endorsement: the effects of leader in-group prototypicality and distributive intergroup fairness. Personality and Social Psychology Bulletin, 27, 1508–1519.

Raelin, J. (2006). Does action learning promote collaborative leadership? Academy of Management Learning & Education, 5(2), 152–168.

Ricklets, R. (1983). Executives and general public say ethical behaviour is declining in US. The Wall Street Journal, October 31st, 33.

Rowe, W.G., Cannella A.A. Jr., Rankin, D., & Gorman, D. (2005). Leader succession & organizational performance: integrating the common-sense, ritual scapegoating & vicious-circle succession theories. Leadership Quarterly, 16(2), 197–219.

Rueb, J.D. & Foti, R.J. (1990). Traits, self-monitoring, and leadership emergence. Paper presented at the Fifth Annual Conference of the Society for Industrial and Organizational Psychology, Miami, FL.

Ryan, R.M. & Deci, E.L. (2001). On happiness and human potential: a review of research on hedonic and eudaimonic well being. Annual Review of Psychology, 52: 141–166.

Salaman, G. (2011). The crises of leadership. In J. Storey, editor. Leadership in Organizations: Current Issues & Key Trends. London: Routledge.

Sashkin, M. (1988). The visionary leader. In J.A. Conger & R.N. Kanungo, editors. Charismatic Leadership: The Elusive Factor in Organizational Effectiveness. San Francisco, CA: Jossey-Bass. pp. 122–160.

Scandura, T.A. (1999). Rethinking leader-member exchange: an organizational justice perspective. Leadership Quarterly, 10, 25–40.

Schaubroeck, J., Lam, S.K., and Cha, S.A. (2007). Embracing transformational leadership: team values and the impact of leader behavior on team performance. Journal of Applied Psychology, 92(4), 1020–1030.

Schaufeli, W.B. & Bakker, A.B. (2004). Job demands, job resources, and their relationship with burnout and engagement: a multi-sample study. Journal of Organizational Behavior, 25, 293–315.

Schaufeli, W., Salanova, M., Gonzalez-Roma , V., & Bakker, A.B. (2002). The measurement of engagement and burnout: a two sample confirmatory factor analytic approach. Journal of Happiness Studies, 3, 71–92.

Schriesheim, C., Castro, S., & Cogliser, C. (1999). Leader-member exchange (LMX) research: a comprehensive review of theory, measurement, and data-analytic procedures. Leadership Quarterly, 10, 63–113.

Schriesheim, C.A., Castro, S.L., Zhou, X.T., & Yammarino, F.J. (2001). The folly of theorizing “A” while testing “B”: a selective level-of-analysis review of the field and a detailed Leader-Member-Exchange illustration. Leadership Quarterly, 12, 515–551.

Schriesheim, C., House, R.J., & Kerr, S. (1976). Leader initiating structure: a reconciliation of discrepant research results and some empirical tests. Organizational Behavior and Human Performance, 15(2), 297–321.

Schriesheim, C. & Kerr, S. (1977). Theories and measures of leadership: a critical appraisal of present and future directions”. In J.G. Hunt & L.L. Larson, editors. Leadership: The Cutting Edge. Carbondale, IL: Southern Illinois University Press. pp. 9–44.

Schein, V. (1994). Managerial sex typing: a persistent and persuasive barrier to women’s opportunities. In M.J. Davidson & R.J. Burke, editors. Women in Management: Current Research Issues. London: Sage.

Schein, V. (2001). A global look at psychological barriers to women’s progress in management. Journal of Social Issues, 57(4), 675–688.

Schein, V.E. (2006). Women in management: reflections & projections. Paper presented at The 26th International Congress of Applied Psychology, July 16th–21st, Athens, Greece.

Scherbaum, C.A., Finlinson, S., Barden, K., & Tamanini, K. (2006). Applications of item response theory to measurement issues in leadership research. Leadership Quarterly, 17(4), 366–386.

Schyns, B. & Day, D. (2010). Critique and review of leader-member exchange theory: issues of agreement, consensus, and excellence. European Journal of Work and Organizational Psychology, 19(1), 1–29.

Shamir, B. (1995). Social distance and charisma: theoretical notes and an exploratory study. Leadership Quarterly, 6, 19–47.

Shamir, B. (1999). An evaluation of conceptual weaknesses in transformational and charismatic leadership theories. Leadership Quarterly, 10(2), 285–305.

Singhapakdi, A. & Vitell, S.J. (1990), Marketing ethics: factors influencing perceptions of ethical problems and alternatives. Journal of Macromarketing, 10, 4–18.

Skakon, J., Nielsen, K., Borg, V., & Guzman, J. (2010). Are leaders’ well-being, behaviours and style associated with the affective well-being of their employees? A systematic review of three decades of research. Work & Stress, 24, 107–139.

Smith, P.B. & Bond, M.H. (1993) Social Psychology across Cultures: Analysis and Perspectives. Needham, MA: Allyn & Bacon.

Smith, P.C., Kendall, L.M., & Hulin, C.L. (1969). The Measurement of Satisfaction in Work and Retirement. Chicago: Rand-McNally.

Sonnentag, S. (2003). Recovery, work engagement, and proactive behavior: a new look at the interface between non-work and work. Journal of Applied Psychology, 88, 518–528.

Spector, P.E. (2006). Method variance in organizational research: truth or urban legend? Organizational Research Methods, 9(2), 221–232.

Spector, P.E. & Brannick, M.T. (1995). The nature and effects of method variance in organizational research. In C.L. Cooper & I.T. Robertson, editors. International Review of Industrial and Organizational Psychology, volume 10. New York: John Wiley. pp. 249–274.

Spillane, J.P. (2006). Distributed Leadership. San Francisco: Jossey-Bass.

Spillane, J.P., Halverson, R., & Diamond, J.B. (2004). Towards a theory of leadership practice: a distributed perspective. Journal of Curriculum Studies, 36(1), 3–34.

Stogdill, R.M. (1948). Personal factors associated with leadership: a survey of the literature. Journal of Psychology, 25, 35–71.

Stogdill, R.M. & Coons, A.E. (1957). Leader Behavior: Its Description and Measurement. Columbus, OH: Ohio State University Press for Bureau of Business Research.

Stone, G.A., Russell, R.F., & Patterson, K. (2004). Transformational versus servant leadership: a difference in leader focus. Leadership & Organization Development Journal, 25(4), 349–361.

Strauss, K., Griffin, M., & Rafferty, A.E. (2009). Proactivity directed toward the team and organization: the role of leadership, commitment and role-breadth self-efficacy. British Journal of Management, 20, 279–291.

Strube, M.J. & Garcia, J.E. (1981). A meta-analytical investigation of Fiedler’s contingency model of leadership effectiveness. Psychological Bulletin, 90, 307–321.

Tejeda, M.J., Scandura, T.A., & Pillai, R. (2001). The MLQ revisited—psychometric properties and recommendations. Leadership Quarterly, 12, 31–52.

Thomas, J.P., Whitman, D.S., & Viswesaran, C. (2010). Employee proactivity in organizations: a comparative meta-analysis of emergent proactive constructs. Journal of Occupational & Organizational Psychology, 83, 275–300.

Thorpe, R., Gold, J., & Lawler, J. (2011). Special issue: Distributed Leadership, International Journal of Management Reviews, 13.

Tichy, N. & Devanna, M. (1986). Transformational Leadership. New York: Wiley.

Timiraos, N. (2002). Professor discusses research, trends in cheating on college campuses. The Hoya, November 15: 1.

Tims, M., Bakker, A.B., & Xanthopoulou, D. (2011). Do transformational leaders enhance their followers’ daily work engagement? Leadership Quarterly, 22, 121–131.

Thorpe, R., Gold, J., & Lawler, J. (2011). Locating distributed leadership. International Journal of Management Reviews, 13(3), 239–250.

Tonn, J. (2003). Mary P. Follett: Creating Democracy, Transforming Management. New Haven: Yale University Press.

Tosi, H., Misangyi, V., Fanelli, A., Waldman, D., & Yammarino, F. (2004). CEO charisma, compensation, and firm performance. Leadership Quarterly, 15, 405–420.

Tourish, D., Craig, R., & Amernic, J. (2010). Transformational leadership education and agency perspectives in business school pedagogy: a marriage of inconvenience? British Journal of Management, 21, S40–S59.

Tourish, D. & Vatcha, N. (2005). Charismatic leadership and corporate cultism at Enron: the elimination of dissent, the promotion of conformity and organizational collapse. Leadership, 1(4), 455–480.

Treviño, L.K., Brown, M., & Hartman, L.P. (2003). A qualitative investigation of perceived executive ethical leadership: perceptions from inside and outside the executive suite. Human Relations, 56, 5–37.

Treviño, L.K., Butterfield, K.D., & Mcabe, D.M. (1998). The ethical context in organizations: Influences on employee attitudes and behaviors. Business Ethics Quarterly, 8, 447 − 476.

Treviño, L.K., Hartman, L.P., & Brown, M. (2000). Moral person and moral manager: How executives develop a reputation for ethical leadership. California Management Review, 42, 128 − 142.

Triandis, H.C. (1993). The contingency model in cross-cultural perspective. In M.M. Chemers & R. Ayman, editors. Leadership Theory & Research: Perspectives & Directions, London: Academic Press.

van der Kleij, J.F.M. (2011). Engaging leadership in healthcare organizations: the mediating role of work engagement. Unpublished masters thesis. University of Groningen, The Netherlands.

Vroom, V.H. & Jago, A.G. (1988). The New Leadership: Managing Participation in Organizations. Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice Hall.

Vroom, V.H. & Yetton, P.N. (1973). Leadership and Decision Making. Pittsburgh, PA: University of Pittsburgh Press.

Waldman, D.A., Ramirez, G.C., House, R.J., & Puranam, P. (2001). Does leadership matter? CEO leadership attributes and profitability under conditions of perceived environmental uncertainty. Academy of Management Journal, 44(1), 134–143.

Waldman, D.A. & Yammarino, F.J. (1999). CEO charismatic leadership: levels-of-management and levels-of-analysis effects. Academy of Management Review, 24, 266–285.

Walumbwa, F.O., Wang, P., Lawler, J.J., & Shi, K. (2004). The role of collective efficacy in the ­relations between transformational leadership and work outcomes. Journal of Occupational & Organizational Psychology, 77(4), 515–530.

Walumbwa, F.O., Avolio, B.J., Gardner, W.L., Wernsing, T.S., & Peterson, S.J. (2008). Authentic leadership: development and validation of a theory-based measure. Journal of Management, 34(1), 89–126.

Watters, B.S.C. (2008). Contemporary British military leadership in the early twenty first century. Unpublished doctoral thesis. University of Leeds, UK.

Wayne, S.J., Shore, L.M., & Liden, R.C. (1997). Perceived organizational support and leader-­member exchange: a social exchange perspective. Academy of Management Journal, 40, 82–111.

Wellins, R. & Concelman, J. (2005). Creating a culture for engagement. Workforce Performance Solutions (www.wpsmag.com). Retrieved July 19th, 2005, from http://www.ddiworld.com/pdf/wps_engagement_ar.pdf.

Wheatley, M. (2001). The real work of knowledge management. International Association for Human Resource Information Management, 5, 29–33. http://www.margaretwheatley.com/articles/management.html.

Wright, L. (2008). Merits and limitations of distributed leadership: experiences and understandings of school principals. Canadian Journal of Educational Administration and Policy, 69. (no page refs) Accessed 08/12/11 from http://umanitoba.ca/publications/cjeap/articles/wright.html.

Wright, P.L. (1996). Managerial Leadership. London: Routledge.

Xanthopoulou, D., Bakker, A.B., Demerouti, E., & Schaufeli, W.B. (2009). Work engagement and financial returns: a diary study on the role of job and personal resources. Journal of Occupational and Organizational Psychology, 82, 183–200.

Yammarino, F.J. & Atwater, L.E. (1993). Understanding self-perception accuracy: implications for human resource management. Human Resource Management, 32, 231 − 247.

Yammarino, F.J. & Atwater, L.E. (2001). Understanding agreement in multisource feedback. In D. Bracken, C. Timmreck, & A. Church, editors. The Handbook of Multisource Feedback. San Francisco: Jossey-Bass. pp. 204−220.

Yammarino, F.J. & Dansereau, F., editors. (2009). Multi-level Issues in Organizational Behavior and Leadership, volume 8 of Research in Multi-Level Issues. Bingley, UK: Emerald.

Yammarino, F.J., Dionne, S.D., Chun, J.U., & Dansereau, F. (2005). Leadership and levels of ­analysis: a state-of-the-science review. Leadership Quarterly, 16, 879–919.

Yukl, G. (1999). An evaluation of conceptual weakness in transformational and charismatic ­leadership theories. Leadership Quarterly, 10, 285–307.

Yukl, G. (2010). Leadership in Organizations, 7th edition. London: Prentice-Hall.





3


Evidence-based Management and Leadership


Rob B. Briner and Neil D. Walshe





3.1 Introduction


Organizations can be led and managed in many different ways and there is no shortage of perspectives, models, and frameworks for thinking about how such tasks can be accomplished. This chapter focuses on one such perspective: evidence-based management (EBMgt). At its core is the idea that when managers and organizations make decisions, ­evidence of various types should be collected, critically appraised, and taken into account. Put this way, EBMgt does not appear to be either new or radical. However, as we shall go on to discuss, recent attempts to elaborate and flesh out this idea show that while some of its core principles are unremarkable, actually doing EBMgt presents major challenges, threats, and opportunities. Far from being business as usual, using evidence seriously and systematically appears to represent a significant departure from what organizations typically do.

This chapter starts with an account of the origins of the idea of evidence-based practice in other fields and how it has been adapted in the development of EBMgt. It then looks at the sometimes controversial notion of leadership and what we know about what ­managers and leaders do. We then consider the extent to which leaders, managers, and organizations are evidence-based in their approach to managing organizations and what can be done to further develop this approach. Finally, we discuss some of the challenges that managing in an evidence-based way present to leaders and to more traditional ways of thinking about what leadership entails.





3.2 Origins of the evidence-based-practice idea


3.2.1 The basic idea of evidence-based practice


Practitioners of all kinds, including managers, routinely use different forms of evidence in their work. So why do we need the idea of evidence-based practice if it’s already happening? The underlying problem or question evidence-based practice sets out to tackle is not whether practitioners use evidence at all but rather whether practitioners make the most effective use of all the forms of evidence that may be available to them.

Although there are important arguments and judgments to be made about what ­constitutes valid or relevant evidence in any particular setting, very few would question the principle of using evidence. At the same time, concerns are sometimes expressed about “analysis paralysis,” when action is delayed or not taken at all because of the time and effort required to gather and analyze evidence. However, in many areas of practice, including management and leadership, the opposite problem seems more apparent: that decisions and actions do not produce the desired outcomes because of insufficient regard for the evidence. While clear data are in short supply, something like evidence-based practice is already happening a bit, but it is not happening enough. Why does this problem occur?

There are many reasons why practitioners working in any domain might not make ­optimal use of evidence. For example, evidence may be difficult to interpret, hard or impossible to access, taken at face value and not critically evaluated, or contradictory. The perceived costs of collecting and using evidence may be judged to outweigh the perceived benefits. Clients and customers who use a practitioner’s services may not require or be too concerned about evidence for that practitioner’s work. At the same time, practitioners may be biased towards some forms of evidence. In particular, while personal experience is an extremely important source of evidence, it is also often overvalued or overemphasized at the cost of other evidence, which may present a different picture.

This form of bias is just one of many cognitive limitations which make it difficult for individuals to make the most effective use of evidence when making decisions or choosing a course of action. Other barriers can also be observed at group, professional, and organizational levels. Thus, even where evidence is available—and it often isn’t—using it ­effectively is far from easy.





3.2.2 The emergence of evidence-based medicine


Given the importance placed on health and the treatment of disease, it is perhaps not ­surprising that medicine was the first area of practice to adopt, develop, and explicitly use the evidence-based-practice idea—though it is surprising to those who assume that medical practice already was strongly evidence-based. A turning point in medicine was the publication of an editorial in the British Medical Journal claiming that “only about 15% of medical interventions are supported by solid scientific evidence” (Smith, 1991, p. 798). This had many effects but led ultimately to important changes in the way medical ­practitioners are trained and go about their work.

So what is evidence-based medicine? It has been defined by Sackett et al. (1997) as “integrating individual clinical expertise with the best available external clinical evidence from systematic research” in making decisions about patient care (p. 2). One of the most crucial features of evidence-based approaches to practice, and one often somehow forgotten, is that they involve the integration of professional experience with other sources of evidence. In other words, as we shall go on to discuss, evidence can come in many forms and from many sources, all are potentially important, and they need to be considered together in an integrative way.

One important difference between the general idea that practitioners should use ­evidence and the more specific idea of evidence-based practice is that the latter involves using evidence in a more systematic and explicit way. As further described by Sackett et al. (1997) evidence-based medicine is:

a process of life-long, self-directed learning in which caring for our own patients creates the need for clinically important information about diagnosis, prognosis, therapy and other clinical and health care issues in which we:

(1) Convert these information needs into answerable questions;

(2) Track down, with maximum efficiency, the best evidence with which to answer them … ;

(3) Critically appraise that evidence for its validity and usefulness;

(4) Apply the results of this appraisal in our clinical practice; and

(5) Evaluate our performance (pp. 2–3).



In other words, evidence-based approaches to practice do much more than simply suggest that individual practitioners should use more evidence. Rather, they attempt to specify processes and techniques than can be followed to use evidence in a more structured manner. In the case of medicine, this has involved, for example, changes in medical education, training, continuing professional development, and the ways in which evidence from medical research is reviewed, summarized, and made available to medical practitioners.

Since the creation of evidence-based medicine, researchers and practitioners working in many other areas, including education, social work, policy-making, architecture, and public health (Aarons, Hurlburt & Horwitz, 2011; Corrigan et al., 2001; De Groot, 2005; Field, 2002; Kitson et al., 1998; Lewis & Caldwell, 2005), have started to make overt links between this idea and their own disciplines. What all of these approaches have in common is the view that practice is not sufficiently informed by evidence in its many, varied forms.

The expression “evidence-based” is now well established in these and other disciplines and practices. Exactly what it means and how it can be achieved is much discussed and varies across fields. It was perhaps inevitable that these ideas would eventually also be applied to management.





3.3 What is EBMgt?


As already suggested, the general idea of using evidence to make decisions is hardly new and already exists in a whole host of management ideas such as Quality, Just in Time and Management by Objectives. However, the specific idea of EBMgt is relatively new and draws on definitions and approaches to evidence-based practice developed in medicine and elsewhere.





3.3.1 A history of EBMgt


The earliest discussions of how to apply evidence-based practice ideas to management are found in health-care management (e.g. Axelson, 1998). The early adoption of EBMgt in this sector presumably came about because managers in health organizations became aware of the evidence-based ideas that had already begun to be adopted by medical practitioners, and also perhaps because clinicians themselves were involved in management. However, it was several publications in 2006 that heralded the start of a wider discussion of EBMgt. Rousseau (2006), in her Academy of Management presidential address, asked the question, “Is there such a thing as evidence-based management?” and identified ­various ways in which management practice could be better informed by the research ­evidence produced by academics. In their book, Hard Facts, Dangerous Half-Truths and Total Nonsense: Profiting from Evidence-based Management, Pfeffer & Sutton (2006) set out some of the practical steps managers can take to become more evidence-based.

While these publications were aimed at different audiences and focused on different aspects of EBMgt, both made use of the basic principles underlying evidence-based ­medicine and demonstrated how they could be adapted to the practice of management.

Though some practitioners and academics have shown interest in the idea, it is important to note that EBMgt has not been enthusiastically received in all quarters. A number of academics have suggested that it has many limitations and may threaten management research (e.g. Learmonth & Harding, 2006; Morrell, 2008) while others have asked what evidence exists for EBMgt (Reay et al., 2009). To some extent, as discussed in Section 3.3.2, this is a reflection of the fact that EBMgt is a new and emerging idea and has not yet been sufficiently clearly defined.





3.3.2 Defining EBMgt


It has been argued that many of the well-reasoned objections to EBMgt actually arise from a misunderstanding of EBMgt. Or rather, they are the consequence of unclear and underspecified definitions of EBMgt. In order to clarify what EBMgt is, and what it is not, Briner et al. (2009, p. 19) defined it as follows:

Evidence-based management is about making decisions through the conscientious, explicit, and judicious use of four sources of information: practitioner expertise and judgment, ­evidence from the local context, a critical evaluation of the best available research evidence, and the perspectives of those people who might be affected by the decision.

“Conscientious” here means that practitioners and managers make planned, thoughtful, and sustained efforts to gather evidence from each of these four sources. This is important because otherwise the evidence which is easiest to get will be used whether or not it is reliable or relevant to the problem at hand. “Explicit” refers to being open and clear about what evidence has been found and communicating and recording it in a comprehensible way. This is to help ensure that all the evidence found is included, that those involved have a shared understanding of this evidence, and that any gaps can easily be identified. Of course, not all information or evidence is necessarily valid, relevant, or reliable and so it requires careful “critical evaluation” to determine, given the problem or question in hand, the quality and relevance of the evidence gathered.

A further challenge is to integrate these sources of knowledge and ensure that any decision that is made has taken account of evidence from each. Figure 3.1 gives a simple representation of how the decision takes place at the intersection of the four sources of evidence. The quantity, the quality, and the relevance of the evidence from each of these sources are unlikely to be equal. For example, the practitioner or management team facing a particular problem may have little evidence from experience on which to draw, some internal evidence, a lot of information about stakeholders’ preferences, and almost no external evidence. The nature and amount of evidence will also vary from problem to problem. EBMgt approaches emphasize the importance of trying to gather and consider evidence from all these sources when making decisions.

Figure 3.1 The elements of evidence-based practice (adapted from Briner et al., 2009).

Briner, R. B., Denyer, D., & Rousseau, D. M. (2009). Evidence-based management: Concept cleanup time? Academy of Management Perspectives, 23, 19–32.



But what types of evidence would be sought from each of these four areas? Table 3.1 shows a hypothetical example of the sorts of evidence a leader or management team might seek if they believed that their organization was insufficiently innovative and wanted to find ways of increasing levels of innovation. From the definition of EBMgt presented here, the presenting problem of low innovation and the proposed solution of intervening to increase innovation would be considered through a “conscientious, explicit, and judicious use” (Briner et al., 2009, p.19) of the four types of evidence suggested here. Evidence about practitioner expertise and judgments would be gathered by managers asking ­themselves questions about their own background in order to make their own experience and assumptions around innovation more explicit. The local context in this example is the organization, so the management team would identify existing data or collect new evidence around the perceived innovation problem and proposed solution. External evidence could include case studies or data from similar organizations who had similar problems and tried similar ­solutions. It would also come from published academic research on what is known and not known about how to assess innovation, what low innovation and its ­consequences might be, how levels of innovation can be increased, and what some of the positive and negative effects of these interventions might be. The perspectives and knowledge of stakeholders, in this case mostly employers and line managers, but also ­perhaps customers, are important for many reasons. For example, they may have insights into and other evidence concerning the perceived problem and proposed solutions not available from any other source.





3.3.3 Doing EBMgt in organizations


The description and example of what doing EBMgt might entail presented in Section 3.3.2 is hypothetical. There is to our knowledge no research on how organizations do EBMgt, nor is there any research on the extent to which management and leadership takes an EBMgt approach. As mentioned earlier, all organizations use evidence. But that is not necessarily the same as doing EBMgt, even to a small degree. It seems likely that the extent to which something like EBMgt is practiced might depend on a number of organizational features, such as sector, size, the country in which it is based or in which it originated, culture, and so on.

In the absence of research on what EBMgt looks like in practice, it is still possible to ­suggest how an EBMgt-oriented organization might appear. Briner & Rousseau (2011) have done something similar, but for a specific group of professionals—industrial and organizational psychologists—rather than an organization. Based on the definition of EBMgt and what we already know about evidence-based practice in other fields, they drew up a checklist of features we might expect to see in any profession that practices in an evidence-based way. They suggested that in any evidence-based profession one would expect to find, for example, that its members access and make use of relevant academic research and that initial training and continuing professional development are based on evidence-based principles.

Table 3.1 Examples of the types of evidence gathered from each of the four sources to inform a decision about how to increase (a perceived low level of) innovation.

Practitioner expertise and judgment Evidence from the local context

Is innovation too low? How can I tell? What have I seen?

Have I seen this sort of situation before?

What happened in those cases?

What do I believe about innovation and why?

Is low innovation a problem?

Do I believe it’s the “real” problem?

How do I believe innovation can be increased?

What are my hunches?

How relevant and applicable is my experience of innovation?

Why do we believe we have an innovation problem?



What internal data or evidence is there that our levels of innovation are low?

Low compared to what?

Are our levels of innovation causing us problems?

Have we measured or assessed innovation?

Are those assessments valid and reliable?

What has happened to innovation over time?

How might our current ways of managing affect innovation?

What do managers think about innovation?

What innovation interventions might work here?





The best available external research evidence Perspectives of those who may be affected by the intervention

Can we compare our level of innovation to that of other organizations?

Do our measures of innovation compare to other measures known to be reliable?

How have other organizations increased innovation?

What is known from research about the causes and effects of low innovation?

Is that research relevant here?

What does research show to be the most effective interventions by which to increase innovation?

How relevant and applicable is that evidence here?

What are the costs and benefits of these interventions?



What do employees think and how do they feel about innovation?

Do they agree it is at a low level?

What do they see as the “real” problem around innovation?

Do managers and employees have a shared view of what innovation is?

Are the proposed innovation interventions seen as useful and acceptable?

How do managers feel about these interventions?

Do employees and managers believe the interventions will have any downsides?





Here, we suggest that a similar checklist can be drawn up to identify those characteristics we might expect to see in any organization that is trying to manage using an EBMgt approach. It can be argued that the EBMgt-oriented organization characteristics listed in Table 3.2 are not found frequently in organizations. For example, evaluation is relatively rare, errors are usually seen as reflecting weaknesses, decision-making is highly political and covert, and management fads are eagerly consumed. The behavior of leaders and senior managers may, as we go on to discuss in the next section, play a highly significant role in either facilitating or inhibiting EBMgt.

Table 3.2 Examples of characteristics found in EBMgt-oriented organizations.

The organization takes steps to gather internal and external evidence in a systematic way and make sure it is accessible to managers and leaders (e.g. effective management information systems, data analysts, links to academic research).

Organizational interventions and practices are evaluated.

The reporting of failures and mistakes is encouraged.

Errors are tolerated and used as learning opportunities.

Decisions are made in a transparent way based on data and opinions (though the distinction is clear).

Experimentation based on thorough initial analysis is encouraged.

There is a healthy skepticism about management fads and fashions.

Critical thinking is rewarded.

Managers are rewarded for using an EBMgt approach.





3.4 Leadership and Differences between Leadership and Management


While there has been much written about leadership, the dimensions and definitions of the construct remain largely unclear (Riggio, 2008). The lack of clarity about what constitutes leadership, as in so many constructs within the realm of organizational behavior and ­psychology, is a consequence of the complexity and multiple layers which it entails. “Leadership” can encompass development, practice, attribution, or measurement of behavior. Attempts to reconcile leadership into a single coherent construct are of little benefit and the idea of leadership is probably best viewed as a composite of all of these elements. For the purpose of this chapter, we will be viewing leadership as practice; that is, the behaviors associated with leading people within organizational settings.

Before addressing the roles that evidence may play in leadership, it is worth pausing to consider the differences between leadership and management as discrete constructs. To date there have been several attempts to analyze how these concepts are related (e.g. Hales, 1986, 1999; Holmberg & Tyrstrup, 2010; Mintzberg, 1973; Tenglblad, 2006). In both common discourse and academic work, the terms “manager” and “leader” are often used interchangeably. The reason for this may be that there are many behavioral similarities between what leaders and managers actually do. Any differences that do exist are often minimal and are not always clearly observable in certain professions or at a given level within an organization.

While a detailed review of the meanings of leadership and management is beyond the scope of this chapter (though see for example Alvesson & Sveningsson, 2003; Bryman, 1992, 1993; Mintzberg, 1973; Pfeffer, 1977), what follows is an outline of how these constructs can be differentiated and how such differences are relevant to understanding the possible links between leadership and EBMgt.





3.4.1 Is leadership different to management?


As already noted, there has long been disagreement about the boundaries between ­leadership and management, and in turn the extent to which they overlap (Rost, 1991; Yukl, 1999). Management is generally associated with the pragmatism of ensuring that an organization functions, whereas, by contrast, leadership is more concerned with coping with and leading change, setting strategy, and the aspirational aspects of organizational development (Kotter, 1990). On another level, management is often characterized as an active process, while leadership is based on interaction (Mello, 2003) between leader and follower (Popper, 2011). The argument is sometimes made that while leaders can manage it is not always the case that managers can lead. However, even with this distinction, it can become difficult to identify the point at which one construct differs sufficiently from the other to be something separate. Such distinctions may have important implications for thinking about leadership and evidence-based practice and how to promote the use of evidence in organizations.

From a theoretical perspective, when we try to separate leadership from management there is one noticeable divide. Leadership has long been characterized by the promotion of charismatic (Conger & Kanungo, 1987, 1998; House, 1977), transformational (Bass, 1985; Burns, 1978), and visionary (Sashkin, 1988) approaches. All of these share the view that a leader instills moral purpose into an organization with the expectation of increased citizenship and the adoption of a shared vision. These theories encourage the leader to be disruptive of the status quo and to innovate not only in process, but in the direction in which they lead. This is in contrast to traditional managerial perspectives, which tend to champion organizational stability (Alvesson & Sveningsson, 2003) and the maintenance of structure over attempts to shape creativity, inspiration, and motivation (Bartlett & Ghoshal, 1995).

It may be that managers rely on transactional models of leadership in the course of their everyday activities. These models are characterized by the exchange of valued rewards for the display of organizationally desired behaviors (Burns, 1978; Waldman et al., 1987). It seems reasonable to assume that decisions based within a transactional framework are more likely to be data- and outcome-driven. In contrast, transformational models of leadership encourage a reliance on an ability to articulate a vision, to inspire followers, and to intellectually stimulate subordinates (Lowe et al., 1996).

In separating management from leadership, the latter has been reserved for “the more dynamic, inspirational aspects of what people in authority may do” (Alvesson & Sveningsson, 2003, p. 1436). Leadership is different to management insomuch as it involves a commitment to the promotion of a specific vision and associated values. Leaders are expected to possess a degree of foresight not always present in those who manage on a daily basis. While both roles are important, a common view is that leaders do not concern themselves with the task-driven and more operational aspects of organizational life. As indicated earlier, while this may imply that leaders are able to manage, it does not always imply that all management is a discreet form of leadership.

For the purposes of this chapter, we do not use “manager” and “leader” as interchangeable labels and instead choose to focus on the role and function of the leader in organizational life as someone in a senior position of power, tasked not solely with the running of the organization but also with ensuring that it possesses and enacts a vision and a sense of purpose. In doing so, we hope to extend the reach of evidence-based practice into the realm of leadership in order to better construct the potential benefits that can be drawn from such an approach.





3.4.2 How do leaders use evidence?


The fact is that we know relatively little about leader behavior in general and even less about how leaders make use of available evidence, let alone the extent to which this may differ from the way managers make use of it. However, we do know that these groups have different sources of evidence to draw on: something which may influence how evidence is subsequently used. While we cannot be sure about the extent to which the field of management is following that of medicine and beginning to adopt an evidence-based ­perspective, the sources of information leaders can use are only slowly growing.

It is believed by some that leaders possess a high degree of intuition and affective reasoning in how they lead (Barker, 2001). These beliefs have been perpetuated by trait-based theories of leadership, which view the ability or propensity to lead as something innate and therefore somewhat confined to a limited number of organizational members. The belief that leaders are themselves a special breed places a social pressure on them within the organization to maintain the perception (of both their superiors and subordinates alike) that their decision-making processes and behaviors are the result of intuition, “gut feeling,” or simply knowing what to do and when to do it. Indeed, it may be a desire to mystify the role of the leader that limits their willingness to consider an evidence-based approach in the course of their activities. Any leader who adopted a “conscientious, explicit, and judicious use” (Briner et al., 2009, p. 19) of evidence may lose some of their mystique, be seen as relying more on evidence than their personal experience, and allowing evidence rather than strong leadership to guide action.





3.5 What Roles could Leaders Play in EBMgt?


Given how little we know about how leaders use evidence, the extent to which this chapter can be prescriptive is rather limited. Not surprisingly, the literature that examines the relationship between evidence and leadership (Lowe et al., 1996; Schaubroeck et al., 2007) tends to focus on the evidence for leadership practices rather than addressing the role of leaders in the adoption and promotion of evidence by organizations. However, there are three ways in which leaders can in principle encourage an adoption of evidence-based ­practice: (1) being an advocate for evidence; (2) being a collector and provider of evidence; and (3) providing the time and resources required for the effective use of evidence.

First, leaders can become advocates for evidence. One of the ways in which this can be achieved is by communicating in a more transparent manner about how they arrive at decisions. Any reluctance to engage in such behaviors might, as mentioned earlier, be driven by the perception that leadership should be driven largely by intuition. The use of evidence in leadership decisions could be seen as somehow trivializing the process away from leadership and towards data analysis. By advocating the use and benefits of evidence, the activities of leadership might also become more accessible to the masses (Tengblad, 2006). Yet this can also benefit followers and organizations alike, as subordinates begin to see the value placed on evidence, the manner in which evidence is used, and the possibility that they too can become evidence-based leaders in their own right. This might contribute to removing the mystique that often surrounds leadership and arguably could prepare organizations for more effective leader succession and distribution of leadership roles.

Advocacy can also be facilitated by the adoption of an interactionist style, which encourages a constant and informed interchange of professional information among colleagues without the restrictions of hierarchy and formal authority. This might take the form of an in-house repository of not only leadership decisions made and their rationales but also the evidence used to inform them. Since a central pillar of an evidence-based approach is the dissemination of evidence, it is of paramount importance that evidence not be retained or used for strategic advantage within the organization. Fostering a sense of collaboration around evidence is important, especially since it appears that the evidence-based leader facilitates work environments where there is a high tolerance for questioning processes and challenging the existing order of things (Harris, 1995).

Second, leaders can become both collectors and providers of evidence. Leaders who support the use of evidence should become aware of the evidence which they themselves generate. The successes and failures of any leadership approach, style, or intervention should be noted, since these are in themselves types of evidence. Having a willingness to engage in data collection and analysis for the purposes of self-development and improvement is to be encouraged. Another role of the evidence-based leader is their appreciation of knowledge management within an organization (Bukowitz & Williams, 1999). Their willingness to ensure that the organization generates wealth from its intellectual and knowledge-based assets may be key to nurturing evidence-based practice. This is demonstrated by the systematic, continuous, and purposeful approach to being aware of what organizational members do, what they need to know, and what they would need to know in order to improve in their respective roles.

Third, the evidence-based leader can promote the use of evidence by demonstrating a willingness to facilitate an organizational structure which provides individuals and work groups with the time and resources required (Harris et al., 2001) to analyze data, scrutinize evidence, and identify areas of action and development. Drawing on examples from education, Lewis & Caldwell (2005) note that “the challenge for leaders is to collect and report data and to be able to internalize it at the right time for the right reasons for the right students” (p. 182). While this may seem an obvious, if not excessively simple, practice, it is paramount to ensuring not only that evidence is gathered but that opportunities are provided to use it in a systematic manner, which includes its being subjected to critical appraisal for its validity and usefulness.

The roles which leaders can play in encouraging an evidence-based approach are simple in concept but more complex in execution. However, engaging in those behaviors that can “create and nurture an emphasis on strategic planning, action research, monitoring, ­evaluation and review” (Lewis & Caldwell, 2005, p. 184) is important. Those leaders who engage in such behaviors not only generate more positive evaluations of their overall ­leadership behaviors but also benefit from increased rates of adoption and implementation of evidence among organizational members (Aarons, 2006).





3.6 How can Leaders become More Evidence-based?


A common question among those introduced to the concept of EBMgt is the relative ease or difficulty of adopting a more evidence-based approach. The assumption is often made that such a transition requires a complex set of skills and learned behaviors and an extensive knowledge base. However, many of the ways in which leaders can become more evidence-based are relatively simple (Lewis & Caldwell, 2005). Having these practices articulated clearly and with examples from other organizations and occupational spheres is important in encouraging both adoption and implementation among those committed to evidence-based practice.

Several frameworks for the adoption of evidence-based practice currently exist, albeit outside of the specific disciplines of management and organizational psychology. Aarons et al. (2011) outline a detailed implementation process for the adoption of an evidence-based framework within public-service sectors. As one might expect, the foundation for this transition rests largely on the willingness of any particular organizational culture to embed evidence at the core of its practice. There is also a suggestion that the presence of a positive organizational culture (that is, one which encourages the open discussion and transparency of organizational processes) is associated with the sustained use of evidence in practice (Glisson & James, 2002). It appears that the organization whose leaders display a willingness to make psychological and tangible space for training on the use and benefits of evidence-based practice shows a greater degree of success in adoption and implementation (Aarons et al., 2011).

Another model for the adoption and implementation of evidence-based practice (Kitson et al., 1998) comes from the educational sector and suggests that the relationship between three core elements—the nature of the evidence being used, the context or environment in which the evidence will be used, and the method in which the process is facilitated—is paramount. This model again highlights the importance of creating an organization ­committed to development, progress, and improvement (Britton, 2002). At the centre of this relationship is the leader, who takes on the role of a facilitator and becomes responsible not only for championing the benefits of adopting evidence but also for helping to develop the technical competence required to complete the transition. Because of this, the leader must themselves first develop the competencies required to initiate the shift towards an evidence-based approach within the organization. If the leader is unclear on the rationale for adoption and the mechanisms needed to do so, they may have limited success in convincing other organizational members to follow them.

Much like the creation of a learning organization, a final model places emphasis on the leader in developing an organizational culture which is evidence-based. Pragmatically, this should take the form of providing training on what data to collect, how to collect them, and how they can be used to develop the organization. In addition to specific organizational cultures facilitating the adoption and promotion of an evidence-based perspective, it has been suggested that evidence-based practice can in turn affect the culture of the organization into which it is adopted (Potworowski & Green, 2012). Given that an organizational culture is heavily influenced by the values and actions of its leaders, they are in a position to facilitate the adoption of evidence-based practice, possibly more so than other organizational members.





3.7 What are the Costs and Benefits of becoming Evidence-based?


Adopting an evidence-based approach to leadership is not without its challenges. As noted earlier, such an approach means that decisions take into account practitioner expertise, ­evidence from the local context, a critical evaluation of the best available research evidence, and the perspectives of those people who might be affected by the decision. The costs of adopting an evidence-based approach are borne principally by three groups: the leader, the organization that they lead, and the members or followers who make up that organization.

As already stated, in the case of the leader, the costs of evidence mean that they must accept a greater degree of transparency in how they lead and the sources which influence their decision-making. In this case, the cost might be the perception of the leader as being controlled by data rather than intuition or innate leadership abilities.

For the organization, the most notable cost of adopting an evidence-based approach is in the investment of time and other resources into switching from existing ­decision-making processes. Organizational members become wed to preexisting processes, and reversing that entrenchment can require a great degree of effort on the part of the organization. In addition to convincing members to adopt new, sometimes counterintuitive behaviors as part of their work role, there exists a need to ensure that the organization possesses the resources and skills required not only to seek out evidence but also to ensure that it becomes used in appropriate ways.

Finally, organizational members, while often being the main target of efforts to ­encourage an evidence-based approach, can often be overlooked as sources of evidence themselves. Since these people represent the organizational population that will be most affected by any behavioral shifts, they should be seen as valuable sources of information with respect to their organizational experiences and should be included in the compilation of evidence.

While there are costs present in becoming evidence-based, there are also benefits for followers and the organization alike. As indicated elsewhere, direct evidence for EBMgt is somewhat sparse, though there are many logical reasons for supposing that it is likely to have a number of benefits for organizations. While organizational change directed towards the adoption of an evidence-based approach can create resistance, research from medicine (Kitson et al., 1998) suggests that there are two principle barriers to the adoption and implementation of evidence-based practice that should be noted when assessing its costs: (1) individuals within organizations often lack the necessary analytic skills to adequately interpret and make use of available evidence; and (2) they lack the ability to implement and maintain initiatives once they have been launched. Both of these barriers highlight the fact that rather than simply following the best evidence, a full evidence-based approach requires a commitment to the entire process—the collection of evidence, critical appraisal of its value, its application to practice, and finally the evaluation of outcomes—in order to ensure that evidence-based practice itself generates further data to contribute to the existing body of evidence.

Finally, leaders can themselves be barriers towards the adoption of an evidence-based approach. It may be that leaders are uncomfortable with the degree of transparency required or with having others scrutinize their decisions. Also, leaders are often responsible for following agendas set by others (shareholders, CEOs, etc.) and it should therefore be recognized that “doing what works” may not always be how leadership performance is evaluated.





3.8 Future Research


It is not enough to say that we need to know more about the role of EBMgt in leadership. We need to understand not only how people lead but also the extent to which they use evidence in the course of their decision-making processes. More importantly, we need also to shift our understanding and expectations of what constitutes evidence within the field and how it is, or is not, being used in the course of organizational leadership. It may be that the biggest barrier to the adoption of an evidence-based approach to leadership behaviors is a willingness to view leadership as a set of motivated behaviors accessible by all, rather than as something confined to a chosen few.

As stated earlier, leaders do not choose to ignore evidence; instead, evidence is usually difficult to obtain and understand, and where present, it can have a limited degree of perceived utility. The challenge ahead requires those who can distil research into evidence to invest the time and resources into doing so. In turn, those who use this evidence must actively engage with it and use their experiences to inform future evidence-based activity. Within ­leadership research, we must encourage the use of systematic reviews. Given the volume and scope of leadership research being produced within the field of organizational psychology, an important first step towards the adoption of evidence would be the production of evidence in a usable format. In order to achieve this, the discipline must begin the process of ­gathering, evaluating, and disseminating the findings of leadership research for consumption outside of the academic population. Of course, this is much easier said than done. The resources required to conduct well-structured, systematic reviews are difficult to acquire. A greater commitment must also come from those who would ultimately make use of such systematic reviews; namely, organizational leaders.

On a subject-specific note, the study of leadership would benefit greatly from the introduction and development of a framework for the collection and evaluation of different kinds of evidence. Given that theory and empirical work in the field of leadership produce different types of evidence, such a framework should incorporate that evidence that informs both the practice of leadership and its development. In addition to such a framework, practitioners and academics alike need to be given training on what data to collect, how they should be collected, and how they should be used in the course of leadership practice. The ultimate outcome of this would be to generate current and comprehensive systematic reviews in the area of leadership, but there are several steps which must first occur. As noted earlier, systematic reviews, while helpful, are time- and labor-intensive and can often pass the problem of interpretation down the line. In creating systematic reviews, the field must also ensure that these reviews are accessible and become familiar supplements to existing formal leadership instruction and training.

Following from this, leaders and organizations require a repository that can disseminate evidence to be used by practitioners and leaders alike. Other areas which have adopted an ­evidence-based approach (most notably medicine) have made use of such a repository, and with support it can rapidly become an iterative source in which a given population can find evidence to be incorporated into the practice of leadership. Finally, and most obviously, usable evidence on leadership lies at the intersection of academic and practitioner work. The need to have a degree of symbiosis between these parties is critical to the creation of a coherent evidence-based resource to draw upon.





3.9 Conclusion


As stated earlier, organizations can be led in many different ways, and what has been offered here is just one discreet perspective. EBMgt is not intended to override, subvert, or replace existing leadership styles or approaches. Instead, it offers an objective perspective from which leaders and followers can consider the role of evidence in the course of their decisions. The choice to use evidence is not in itself a solution. Adoption of evidence does not ensure good or even better leadership behaviors or organizational performance. What it does promote is a greater degree of transparency, openness to creating learning organizations, and, hopefully, processes which are defensible, open to refinement, and benefit the organization as a whole.

If anything is to be drawn from this chapter’s outline of EBMgt and leadership, it is that evidence, where available, should be incorporated into leadership behaviors and into the factors which influence decision-making in organizations. As highlighted in the practice of evidence-based medicine, evidence does not replace experience, but instead should be integrated into existing professional experience in order to create a more robust product.

The extent to which the adoption of evidence-based approaches is important to leadership is not yet clear. Simply put, we do not have sufficient evidence. However, whatever potential benefits exist are largely dependent on the leader who creates the conceptual space and tangible resources required for evidence to have a meaningful and valued place within the organization.





References


Aarons, G.A., Hurlburt, M., & Horwitz, S.M. (2011). Advancing a conceptual model of evidence-based practice implementation in public service sectors. Administration and Policy in Mental Health and Mental Health Services Research, 38, 4–23.

Aarons, G.A. (2006). Transformational and transactional leadership: association with attitudes toward evidence-based practice. Psychiatric Services, 57, 1162–1169.

Alvesson, M. & Sveningsson, S. (2003). Managers doing leadership: the extra-ordinarization of the mundane. Human Relations, 56, 1435–1459.

Axelson, R. (1998). Towards an evidence-based healthcare management. International Journal of Health Planning and Management, 13, 307–317.

Barker, R. (2001). The nature of leadership. Human Relations, 54, 469–94.

Bartlett, C.A. & Ghoshal, S. (1995) Changing the role of top management: beyond systems to people. Harvard Business Review, 73, 132–142.

Bass, B. M. (1985). Leadership and Performance beyond Expectations. New York: Free Press.

Briner, R.B., Denyer, D., & Rousseau, D.M. (2009). Evidence-based management: concept cleanup time? Academy of Management Perspectives, 23, 19–32.

Briner, R.B. & Rousseau, D.M. (2011). Evidence-based I-O psychology: not there yet. Industrial and Organizational Psychology: Perspectives on Science and Practice, 4, 3–22.

Britton, B. (2002). Learning for Change: Principles and Practices of Learning Organizations. Sundbyberg: Swedish Mission Council.

Bryman, A. (1992). Charisma and Leadership in Organizations. Newbury Park, CA: Sage.

Bryman, A. (1993). Charismatic leadership in business organizations: some neglected issues. The Leadership Quarterly, 4, 289–304.

Bukowitz, W.R. & Williams, R.L. (1999). The Knowledge Management Fieldbook. Upper Saddle River, NJ; Financial Times/Prentice Hall.

Burns, J.M. (1978). Leadership. New York: Harper & Row.

Conger, J.A. & Kanungo, R.N. (1987). Toward a behavioral theory of charismatic leadership in organizational settings. Academy of Management Review, 12, 637–647.

Conger, J.A. & Kanungo, R.N. (1998). Charismatic Leadership in Organizations. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage Publications.

Corrigan, P.W., Steiner, L., McCracken, S.G., Blaser, B. & Barr, M. (2001). Strategies for disseminating evidence-based practices to staff who treat people with serious mental illness. Psychiatric Services, 52, 1598–1606.

De Groot, H.A. (2005). Evidence-based leadership: nursing’s new mandate. Nurse Leader, 3, 37–41.

Field, K. (2002). Evidence-based subject leadership. Journal of In-service Education, 28, 459–474.

Glisson, C. & James, L.R. (2002). The cross-level effects of culture and climate in human service teams. Journal of Organizational Behavior, 23, 767–794.

Hales, C.P. (1986). What do managers do? A critical review of the evidence. Journal of Management Studies, 23, 88–115.

Hales, C.P. (1999). Why do managers do what they do? Reconciling evidence and theory in accounts of managerial work. British Journal of Management, 10, 335–350.

Harris, A., Busher, H., & Wise, C. (2001). Effective training for subject leaders. Journal of In-service Education, 27, 83–94.

Harris, A. (1995). Effective Subject Departments. Bath, UK: University of Bath.

Holmberg, I. & Tyrstrup, M. (2010). Well then—What now? An everyday approach to managerial leadership. Leadership, 6, 353–372.

House, R. (1977). A theory of charismatic leadership. In J.G. Hunt & L.L. Larson, editors. Leadership: The Cutting Edge. Carbondale, IL: Southern Illinois University Press.

Kitson, A., Harvey, G., & McCormack, B. (1998). Enabling the implementation of evidence based practice: a conceptual framework. Quality in Health Care, 7, 149–158.

Kotter, J.P. (1990). A Force for Change: How Leadership Differs from Management. New York: Free Press.

Learmonth, M. & Harding, N. (2006). Evidence-based management: the very idea. Public Administration, 84, 245–266.

Lewis, J. & Caldwell, B.J. (2005). Evidence-based leadership. The Educational Forum, 69, 182–191.

Lowe, K.B., Kroeck, K.G., & Sivasubramaniam, N. (1996). Effectiveness correlates of transforma­tional and transactional leadership: a meta-analytic review of the MLQ literature. Leadership Quarterly, 7, 385–425.

Mello, J.A. (2003). Profiles in leadership: enhancing learning through model and theory building. Journal of Management Education, 27, 344–361.

Mintzberg, H. (1973). The Nature of Managerial Work. New York: Harper and Row.

Morrell, K. (2008). The narrative of “evidence based” management: a polemic. Journal of Management Studies, 45, 613–635.

Pfeffer, J. & Sutton, R.I. (2006). Hard facts, dangerous half-truths, and total nonsense: profiting from evidence-based management. Cambridge, MA: Harvard Business School Press.

Pfeffer, J. (1977). The ambiguity of leadership. Academy of Management Review, 2, 104–112.

Popper, M. (2011). Toward a theory of followership. Review of General Psychology, 15, 29–36.

Potworowski, G. & Green, L.A. (2012). Culture and evidence-based management. In D.M. Rousseau, editor. The Oxford Handbook of Evidence-based Management. New York: Oxford University Press.

Reay, T., Berta, W., & Kohn, M.K. (2009). What’s the evidence on evidence-based management? Academy of Management Perspectives, 23, 5–18.

Riggio, R.E. (2008). Leadership development: the current state and future expectations. Consulting Psychology Journal: Practice and Research, 60, 383–392.

Rost, J. (1991). Leadership for the Twenty-first Century. Westport, CT: Praeger.

Rousseau, D.M. (2006). Is there such a thing as evidence-based management? Academy of Management Review, 31, 256–269.

Sackett, D.L., Richardson, W.S., Rosenberg, W., & Haynes, R.B. (1997). Evidence-based Medicine: How to Practice and Teach EBM. London: Churchill Livingstone.

Sashkin, M. (1988). The visionary leader. In J.A. Conger & R.N. Kanungo, editor. Charismatic Leadership: The Elusive Factor in Organizational Effectiveness. San Francisco, CA: Jossey-Bass.

Schaubroeck, J., Lam, S.S.K., & Cha, S.E. (2007). Embracing transformational leadership: team values and the impact of leader behavior on team performance. Journal of Applied Psychology, 92, 1020–1030.

Smith, R. (1991). Where is the wisdom…? The poverty of medical evidence. British Medical Journal, 303, 798–799.

Tengblad, S. (2006). Is there a “New Managerial Work”? A comparison with Henry Mintzberg’s classic study 30 years later. Journal of Management Studies, 43, 1437–1461.

Waldman, D.A., Bass, B.M., & Einstein, W.O. (1987). Leadership and outcomes of performance appraisal processes. Journal of Occupational Psychology, 60, 177–186.

Yukl, G. (1999). An evaluation of conceptual weaknesses in transformational and charismatic ­leadership theories. The Leadership Quarterly, 10, 285–305.





4


Psychodynamic Issues in Organizational Leadership


Manfred F.R. Kets de Vries,Elizabeth Florent-Treacy, and Konstantin Korotov

Kafka truly illustrates the way the environment oppresses the individual. He shows how the unconscious controls our lives.

Manuel Puig

The brain is a wonderful organ; it starts working the moment you get up in the ­morning and does not stop until you get into the office.

Robert Frost





4.1 The Vicissitudes of Leadership


At its heart, leadership is about human behavior—understanding it and enhancing it. Leadership involves the highly complex interplay among individuals in systems, all within diverse situational contexts. It is about the way people and organizations behave, about creating and strengthening relationships, handling conflict, building commitment, establishing a group identity, and adapting behavior to increase effectiveness (Bennis & Nanus, 1985; Burns, 1978; Kets de Vries, 2001c; Pfeffer, 1998; Stogdill & Bass, 1990).

Effective leaders are receptive to the needs of followers; they are cognizant of the sensitive nature of the leader–follower relationship; they pay careful attention to group processes. Such leaders know how to calm anxieties and arouse hopes and aspirations; they know how to transform personal needs into societal demands; they know how to liberate human energy and inspire people to positive action. They are able to transcend narrow, personal concerns—their own and their followers’. These leaders seek to create great places to work, and they are the people we need in our rapidly changing world.

Unfortunately, this type of leadership is still rare. Rather simplistic assumptions made about human behavior underlie most definitions of leadership, methodologies for studying leadership, and recommendations for leadership development. Evoking the rational Economic Man, whose rallying cry of “shareholder value” is far too often the major ­leitmotiv in organizational life, many organizational practitioners and observers have avoided immersion into the unconscious life of organizations, and have denied its impact on business and political behavior, social dynamics, and large-group behavior (Kets de Vries, 1980, 1984, 2006; Volkan, 1988). However, a purely rational–structural way of looking at organizations has never been a sufficient framework for understanding leadership. It leaves too many organizational phenomena unresolved and unexplained. Not only is there a web of constantly shifting and irrational forces in organizations, but in addition the mismatch between “reality” and out-of-awareness reactions may lead to bewilderment, anxiety, depression, or even aggression for all concerned.

Scholars and leaders who seek to understand the complexities of leader–follower interactions are not interested in idealistic, trend-driven theories of organizational analysis, transformation, and change; instead, they look for realistic approaches. They are curious about the hidden undercurrents that affect human behavior. They realize that only by ­accepting the fact that leaders, like the rest of us, are not paragons of rationality can we begin to understand why many well-laid plans and strategies derail, or conversely, why great leaders sometimes come from very unexpected places.

Goaded by blatant failures of organizational leadership that were clearly the result of irrational actions—Jeffrey Skilling of Enron, Bernie Madoff, and later Rajat Gupta, the ex-managing director of McKinsey—mirrored by leaders whose actions, though quirky, were clearly beneficial to their organizations—Richard Branson of Virgin, Steve Jobs of Apple, or Mark Zuckerberg of Facebook—scholars, practitioners, and the general public now look to the systems-psychodynamic approach as an appropriate paradigm for analyzing the dark side as well as the atypical successes associated with specific leaders in diverse contexts (Czander, 1993; DeBoard, 1978; Eisold, 2010; Gabriel, 1999; Hirschhorn, 1988; Kets de Vries, 1989; Kets de Vries & Miller, 1985; Krantz, 2010; Levinson, 1962; Obholzer and Zagier, 1994; Zaleznik, 1966; Zaleznik & Kets de Vries, 1975). The ­systems-psychodynamic approach, which focuses precisely on the dynamics of human behavior that are often the most difficult to understand, demonstrates more effectively than other conceptual framework that people are complex, unique, and paradoxical beings who differ in their motivational patterns.

Applying psychodynamic concepts to the ebb and flow of life in organizations ­contributes to our understanding of the vicissitudes of leadership. For many leaders and observers of organizational life, the only thing that matters is what we see and know (in other words, what is tangible and measureable). Consequently, organizational phenomena such as individual motivation, communication, leadership, interpersonal relationships, group and intergroup dynamics, corporate culture, change, and strategy development have often been framed with behaviorist or humanist psychology models. But the “organization man” or woman is human, after all, and life in organizations has always involved more complexity than meets the eye.

The psychodynamic paradigm, when applied to leadership, draws not only on Freud’s psychoanalytic theories of human behavior, but also on the work of many later scholars and thinkers in other fields, who adapted and broadened the foundation concepts of psychoanalysis to encompass the hidden and overt dynamics that influence the behavior of groups and even organizations. As such, a psychodynamic approach provides valuable frameworks and concepts for studying and shaping many facets of leadership.

This chapter reviews psychodynamic issues in leadership theory, leadership in organizations, and leadership development. We begin with an overview of pertinent ­psychodynamic concepts. The pioneering work by scholars who brought psychodynamic insights to the attention of leadership researchers and practitioners in organizations is highlighted. In addition, we touch on some of the psychodynamic issues at play in leadership development. In concluding, we mention future issues and challenges still to be addressed.





4.2 Psychodynamic Concepts: An Overview


A psychodynamic approach to exploring human nature, when broadly defined, draws attention to the sources of energy and motivational forces that give impetus to, or create inertia against, human actions. This approach considers what is “within”: the inner world of individuals, including their emotions; relationships between individuals; and the “reality” that is created by the dynamics of groups (Neumann & Hirschhorn, 1999).

In the century since Freud and his contemporaries began to explore the human mind, psychoanalytic and psychodynamic theories have become increasingly sophisticated, incorporating findings from domains such as dynamic psychiatry, developmental psychology, anthropology, neuropsychology, cognitive theory, family systems theory, individual and group psychotherapy, and leadership coaching. Although various aspects of Freud’s theories are no longer valid in light of new information about the workings of the mind, fundamental components of psychoanalytic theory have been scientifically and empirically tested and verified, specifically as they relate to cognitive and emotional processes (Barron et al., 1992; Westen, 1998).

As an archaeologist of the mind, Freud believed that neurotic symptoms could be used to decode why people behave the way they do. As conspicuous signifiers of a person’s inner world, they can be seen, he believed, as “the royal road to an understanding of the unconscious” (Freud, 1900, p. 608). We contend that this perspective can be applied, by analogy, to organizations: just as every neurotic symptom has an explanatory history, so has every organizational act; just as symptoms and dreams can be viewed as signs replete with meaning, so can specific acts, statements, and decisions in the boardroom. Likewise, the repetition of certain phenomena in the workplace suggests the existence of specific motivational configurations. The identification of cognitive and affective distortions in an organization’s leaders and followers can help executives recognize the extent to which unconscious fantasies and out-of-awareness behavior affect decision-making and management practices in their organization. In short, the best bridge from the certainties of the empirical sciences to the ambiguities of the human mind is still (despite enormous advances in neuroscience) the clinical psychodynamic paradigm.

The conceptual framework of the clinical paradigm, with its broadly integrative psychodynamic perspective, includes several core theoretical premises which trace their lineage to Freud but are still are used today to define current psychodynamic thinking. By making sense out of executives’ deeper wishes and fantasies, and showing how these fantasies influence behavior in the world of work, the psychodynamic orientation offers a practical way of discovering how leaders and organizations really function (Kets de Vries & Miller, 1984).





4.2.1 The inner world of leaders: out of sight, out of mind


One of the core concepts of the psychodynamic paradigm has been described as the “inner theatre” (McDougall, 1985). We all have an inner theatre filled with people who have influenced, for better or worse, our experiences in life. These early experiences contribute to the creation of response patterns, which in turn result in a tendency to repeat certain behavior patterns in other contexts, with different people. Though we are generally unaware of experiencing “transference”—the term given by psychologists to this ­confusion in time and place—we may sometimes relate to others as we once did to early caretakers or other important figures (Etchegoyen, 1991; Freud, 1905).

The basic “script” of a person’s inner theatre is determined by the way the inner theatre evolves through developmental processes (Kets de Vries, 2006). Within the inner theatre, certain themes develop over time—themes that reflect the preeminence of certain inner wishes that contribute to our unique personality style. These “core conflictual relationship themes” (CCRTs) translate into consistent patterns by which we relate to others (­Luborsky & Crits-Cristoph, 1998). Put another way, our early experiences and basic wishes color our life-scripts, which in turn shape our relationships with others, determining the way we believe others will react to us and the way we react to others. When we go to work, we take these fundamental wishes—our CCRTs—into the context of our workplace relationships. We project our wishes on others and, based on those wishes, rightly or wrongly anticipate how others will react to us; then we react not to their actual reactions but to their perceived reactions. Unfortunately, the life-scripts drawn up in childhood on the basis of our CCRTs often become ineffective in adult situations.

To understand human nature in all its complexity, we must also consider motivational need systems, because they are the operational code that drives personality (Lichtenberg, 1991; Lichtenberg and Schonbar, 1992). Some of these motivational need systems are more basic than others. Most fundamental is the system regulating a person’s physiological needs—that is, for food, water, elimination, sleep, and breathing. Another system handles the need for sensual enjoyment and (later) sexual excitement, while still another deals with the need to respond with antagonism and withdrawal to certain situations. Although these need systems impact the work situation to some extent, two others are of particular interest for life in organizations: the attachment/affiliation (Bowlby, 1969) and the exploration/assertion (Bandura, 1989; White, 1959) need systems. Each of these motivational need systems is operational from infancy throughout life, modified by age, learning, and maturation. The attachment/affiliation and exploration/assertion need systems influence the way in which individuals assert their desire to be a part of a community, and their need for creativity and new thinking. Depending on the way an organization meets these needs, connectivity and innovation can be enhanced, or on the contrary, stifled.

The concepts outlined above can be organized in a framework that describes the premises of the clinical paradigm (Kets de Vries, 2001c). First, the clinical paradigm argues that there is a rationale behind every human act—a logical explanation—even for actions that seem irrational. This point of view stipulates that all behavior has an explanation. Because that explanation is often elusive—inextricably interwoven with unconscious needs and desires—one has to do “detective work” to tease out hints and clues regarding perplexing behavior.

The second premise is that a great deal of mental life—feelings, fears, motives—lies outside of conscious awareness, but still affects conscious reality and even physical well-being. We all have blind spots. People aren’t always aware of what they are doing—much less why they are doing it. Though hidden from rational thought, the human unconscious affects (and in some cases even dictates) conscious reality. Even the most “rational” people have blind spots, and even the “best” people have a shadow side—a side that they don’t know, and don’t want to know.

The third premise states that nothing is more central to who a person is than the way he or she regulates and expresses emotions. Emotions color experiences with positive and negative connotations, creating preference in the choices we make and the way we deal with the world. Emotions also form the basis for the internalization of the mental representations of the self and others that guide relationships throughout one’s life. The way a person perceives and expresses emotions may change as the years go by, influenced by life experiences (Darwin, 1920; Plutchick, 1980; Tomkins, 1995).

The fourth premise underlying the clinical paradigm is that human development is an inter- and intrapersonal process; we are all products of our past experiences, and those experiences, including the developmental experiences given by our caretakers, continue to influence us throughout life (Emde, 1980; Erikson, 1963; Kagan, 1994; Kagan and Moss, 1983; Kohlberg, 1981; Oglensky, 1995; Piaget, 1952; Pine, 1985).

The clinical paradigm provides a lens for understanding our own and others’ behavior. By considering the way subconscious forces and need systems interact, it is possible to gain an understanding of an individual’s mental schemas—the “templates” in their unconscious—which create symbolic “scripts” in his or her “inner theater” and affect behavior. A greater awareness of problematic relationship patterns (transference and countertransference reactions) can provide an opening to explore and work through difficult issues in the here and now. Exploring the relationships between past and present enables us to be liberated from ingrained, automatic behavior that might keep us locked in situations in a way that we don’t always understand.





4.2.2 A broader stage: the interactions of leaders and followers


4.2.2.1 Mirroring and idealizing


Mirroring and idealizing are two types of transferential process that are especially common in the workplace. It is said that the first mirror for a baby is the mother’s face. From that point on, the process of mirroring—that is, taking our cues about being and behaving from those around us—becomes an ongoing aspect of our daily life and of our relationships with others (Kets de Vries, 2011; Kohut, 1971, 1985). In organizations, this mirroring dynamic between leader and follower can become collusive. Followers are eager to use their leaders to reflect what they would like to see. Leaders, on the other hand, find the affirmation of followers hard to resist. The result is often a mutual-admiration society that encourages leaders to take actions that shore up their image rather than serve the needs of the organization. Furthermore, idealizing is a way of coping with feelings of helplessness; we idealize people important to us, beginning with our first caretakers, assigning powerful imagery to them. Through this process, we hope to acquire some of the power of the person admired. Idealizing transference thus serves as a protective shield.

Idealizing and mirroring have their positive sides; they can generate an adhesive bond that helps to keep the organization together in crisis. Because they temporarily suspend insight and self-criticism, they are key tools in the creation of a common vision and the generation of “committed action” by followers. When these transferential patterns persist, however, leader and followers gradually stop responding to the reality of the situation, ­allowing their past hopes and fantasies to govern their interactions.





4.2.2.2 Narcissism


At the heart of leadership lies the subject of narcissism (Freud, 1914; Kernberg, 1975; Kets de Vries, 1989; Kets de Vries & Miller, 1985; Kohut, 1971, 1985; Maccoby, 1976). Narcissism—which Freud (1914) summarized as behaviors that range from a normal self-interest to a pathological self-absorption—offers leaders conviction about the righteousness of their cause, which inspires loyalty and group identification; the strength (and even inflexibility) of a narcissistic leader’s worldview gives followers something to identify with and hold on to. Although it can be a key ingredient for success, narcissism can also become a toxic drug.

Narcissism can be labeled as either constructive or reactive, with excess narcissism ­generally falling in the latter category and healthy narcissism generally falling in the former (Kets de Vries, 2004; Kets de Vries & Miller, 1985). Constructive narcissists have been fortunate enough to have caretakers who provided a supportive environment that led to basic trust and to a sense of control over their own actions. As adults, they tend to be relatively well balanced; to have vitality and a sense of self-esteem; to have a capacity for introspection and empathy. In leadership roles, constructive narcissists often seem larger than life. They inspire others not only to be better at what they do, but also to entirely change what they do.

Reactive narcissistic leaders, on the other hand, were not as fortunate in childhood. Instead, they were the recipients of over- or understimulation, or inconsistent stimulation. Typically, reactive narcissistic leaders become fixated on issues of power, status, prestige, and superiority. They are often driven towards achievement and attainment by the need to get even for perceived slights experienced in childhood. They are especially responsive to admiration and are not prepared to share power. Unwilling to tolerate disagreement, and dealing poorly with criticism, such leaders rarely consult with others, and when they do, such consultation is little more than ritualistic. The result is that disposition and position work together to wreak havoc on reality-testing, and the boundaries that define normal work processes disappear.





4.2.2.3 Identification with the aggressor


To overcome the anxiety prompted by a leader’s aggressive behavior, some followers may resort to the defensive process known as “identification with the aggressor.” In the presence of a superior force with the power to inflict mental and physical pain, people sometimes feel a strong incentive to become like that superior force, to protect against possible aggression (Freud, 1966; Kets de Vries, 2009a). In full-fledged identification with the aggressor, individuals impersonate the aggressor, transforming themselves from those threatened to those making threats.

In this climate of dependency, the world becomes starkly black and white. In other words, the leader sees people as being either for or against them. When a leader has this kind of mindset, independent thinkers are “removed”; those who hesitate to collaborate become fresh targets for the leader’s anger. Those “identifying with the aggressor” support the leader almost as a rite of passage and, coincidentally, share his or her eventual guilt about actions taken—a guilt that can be exculpated through scapegoats: designated villains on whom the group enacts revenge whenever things go wrong. These scapegoats become the external stabilizers of identity and inner control on which to project everything the group is afraid of, everything that is perceived as bad.





4.2.2.4 Folie á deux


Some leader–follower collusions can be described as “folies à deux,” or shared madnesses, a form of mental contagion (Kets de Vries, 1979, 2001b). In such collusions, there is usually a dominant person whose delusions become incorporated and shared by the other, healthier members of the organization. Leaders whose capacity for reality-testing has become impaired may transfer their delusions to their subordinates, who in turn often engage in mental acrobatics to stay close to the center of power. To minimize conflict and disagreement, they sacrifice truth on the altar of intimacy, maintaining a connection with the leader even though he or she has lost touch with reality.

Collusive relationships like these, with their induced lack of reality-testing, can have ­various outcomes—all negative. In extreme cases, a folie á deux can lead to the self-­destruction of the leader, professionally speaking, and the demise of the organization. And the implications of the dark sides of leadership and “followership” are clear. The world is full of followers who deprive their leaders of needed critical feedback for the purpose of self-enhancement. A follower’s shadow side can be just as dark, and have as devastating an effect, as a leader’s. No leader is immune from taking actions that lead to destructive consequences, and no follower from being an active participant in the process.





4.2.2.5 The shadow side of groups


A study of leader–follower relationships necessarily addresses the psychology of groups. The psychiatrist Wilfred Bion identified three basic assumptions in groups—dependency, fight–flight, and pairing—that may result in pathological regressive processes, deflecting people from the principal tasks to be performed (Bion, 1959).

People often assume, at an unconscious level, that their leader or organization can and should offer protection and guidance similar to that offered by parents in earlier years. Groups subject to the dependency assumption are united by feelings of helplessness, inadequacy, neediness, and fear of the outside world. They perceive their leader as omnipotent, and as a result, they readily give up their autonomy. This contributes to goal-directedness and cohesiveness, but impairs followers’ critical judgment and leaves them unwilling to take initiative.

Another common unconscious assumption is that the organizational world is dangerous and that participants must use fight or flight as a defense. In groups subject to the fight–flight assumption, there is a tendency to split the world into camps of friends and enemies. Fight reactions manifest themselves in aggression against the self, peers, or authority. Flight reactions include avoidance, absenteeism, and resignation. Subscribing to a rigid, bipolar view of the world, these groups possess a strong desire for protection from and conquest of “the enemy,” in all its varied manifestations. Some leaders encourage the fight–flight assumption, inflaming their followers against real and/or imagined enemies, using the in-group/out-group division to motivate people and to channel anxiety outward. This enforces the group’s identity and creates meaning for followers who feel lost. The resulting sense of unity is highly reassuring but makes the group increasingly dependent on its leader.

Bion’s third assumption is that pairing up with a person or subgroup perceived as powerful will help a person cope with anxiety, alienation, and loneliness. People experiencing the pairing assumption fantasize that the most effective creation will take place in pairs. Unfortunately, pairing also implies splitting, which may result in intra- and intergroup conflict and building of smaller systems within the group. It also manifests itself in ganging up against the leader perceived as an aggressor or authority figure.





4.2.2.6 Basic social defenses


The basic assumptions concerning group dynamics discussed in Section 4.2.2.5 all reveal underlying anxiety about the world and one’s place in it. When they prevail in an organization, it is a sign that the leadership is not dealing adequately with the emerging anxiety of working in a social setting (Diamond, 1993; Gilmore and Krantz, 1985; Gould et al., 2001; Hirschhorn, 1988; Jaques, 1955; Kets de Vries, 2011; Menzies Lyth, 1959). Typically, executives rely on existing structures to “contain” that anxiety. When these offer insufficient “containment,” people in organizations engage in regressive social defenses, such as splitting (seeing everything as black or white), projection (seeing one’s own shortcomings in others), displacement (expressing negative emotions by focusing on a less threatening target), denial (refusal to accept facts), and other routines. Dysfunctional structures may be put into place to cope with depressive and paranoid anxiety.

The purpose of social defenses is to transform and neutralize strong tensions and affects, such as anxiety, shame, guilt, envy, jealousy, rage, sexual frustration, and low self-esteem. They function similarly to individual defenses, but are woven into the fabric of an organization in an effort to ensure safety and acceptance. When these ways of dealing with the angst and unpredictability of life in an organization become the dominant mode of operation (rather than an occasional stopgap measure), they become dysfunctional for the organization as a whole. They may still serve a purpose (albeit not necessarily a constructive one), but they have become bureaucratic obstacles. These bureaucratic routines and pseudorational activities gradually obscure personal and organizational realities, allowing people to detach themselves from their inner experience. Task forces, administrative ­procedures, rationalization, intellectualization, and other structures and processes are used to keep people emotionally uninvolved and to help them feel safe and in control. While these processes do in fact reduce anxiety—the original goal—they also replace creativity, empathy, awareness, openness to change, and meaning with control and impersonality.





4.3 Bringing the Human Dimension Back into Organizations


Freud himself didn’t make any direct observations about the application of his ideas to the world of work, but later in life he became interested in group psychology and societal issues, notably in Civilization and its Discontents (1930). His writing, including an exchange of letters with Einstein on the topic of war (published in 1933 as a pamphlet entitled “Why War?”), did not have an immediate impact—both Einstein and Freud were soon driven into exile—but the psychoanalytic paradigm was taken up by many of his contemporaries and became a critical element of subsequent analyses of modern society, and set the stage for a wider application of psychodynamic theory to organizations. Subsequently, many scholars influenced by his contributions applied aspects of the clinical paradigm to the workplace. These scholars claimed that the inner world of the leader—his or her early childhood experiences and related hopes, fears, and desires—was extremely influential even at a systemic level in organizations, and should not be ignored.

In the aftermath of World War II, psychoanalysts and psychoanalytically informed researchers at the London Tavistock Institute and the Menninger Clinic in Topeka, ­Kansas; Abraham Zaleznik at the Harvard Business School; and Otto Kernberg at the Cornell Medical School were among the first to argue that applying psychoanalytic concepts to organizational life could help people better understand the irrational processes that underlie human behavior and decision-making. Their contemporaries in Germany and France were also beginning to apply psychodynamic concepts to society and organizations.

The London-based Tavistock was founded in 1946 by a group that included well-known psychoanalysts such as Elliott Jaques, Wilfred Bion, John Bowlby, Eric Trist, Melanie Klein, and R.D. Laing. Elaborating on Bion’s earlier focus on the properties and unconscious functioning of the group as a whole, rather than as an aggregate of individuals (Bion, 1961; Bion & Rickman, 1943), the Tavistock group went on to contribute a great deal to our understanding of the hidden dynamics within organizations that may directly influence leadership, including for example the concepts of: sociotechnical systems (Emery & Trist, 1965; Trist & Bamforth, 1951); industrial democracy (Jaques, 1951); the use of social systems as a defense against anxiety (Jaques, 1955, 1970; Menzies Lyth, 1959); the interpretation of social dreaming as a way to define meaning for a group (­Lawrence, 1998); and organizational role-analysis (Newton et al., 2006). However, members of the Tavistock Institute focused on group processes in public organizations such as hospitals and schools, and did not work within business organizations, with the notable exception of Elliot Jacques and his partnership with businessman Wilfred Brown. Jacques and Brown conducted a 17-year study, “the Glacier project,” which explored issues of authority, role clarity, accountability, and power, seeking to understand the motives of both leaders and workers in a Scottish factory, Glacier Metal, of which Brown was the CEO. Jaques’ early findings were published in his seminal book, The Changing Culture of a Factory (1951).

The Menninger Clinic, founded in 1942 to promote the training of psychoanalysts, also began to apply a psychodynamic approach to the world of work in the mid-1950s, notably through the work of Will Menninger and Harry Levinson with the Menninger Division of Industrial Mental Health. Interest in the world of work was sparked there by an extensive national survey of mental-health problems in industry, including recommendations on how to solve or alleviate them. As a result of the survey, Menninger began to offer weeklong seminars for executives from all parts of the country in order to give these business leaders an understanding of why human beings act as they do.

In Germany, psychoanalyst Alexander Mitscherlich applied some of the principles of psychoanalysis to postwar society, and his books Society without the Father (1963) and The Inability to Mourn (1975) became extremely influential works that not only shaped Germans’ analyses of the causes of their war, but also opened the field of social psychology to a much broader audience. In France, a sociopsychoanalytic movement emerged that included scholars such as Gérard Mendel (1968), Didier Anzieu (1972, 1999), René Kaës (1993), Eugène Enriquez (1992), Gilles Amado & Leopold Vansina (2005), and Jean Benjamin Stora (2007). These psychoanalysts and psychoanalytically-informed scholars used psychoanalytic conceptualizations to better understand the fantasies, projections, and identifications that play themselves out in groups, as well as the processes of repression, suppression, and idealization that are important in organizational life.

At the same time, Abraham Zaleznik (while in training as a psychoanalyst at the Boston Psychoanalytic Institute) started to influence a group of young scholars, including Manfred Kets de Vries, Sudhir Kakar, Pierre Laurin, Anne Jardim, Roland Reitter, Georges Trepo, and Michael Hofmann, who were interested in both the world of work and the world of psychoanalysis. Kets de Vries later went to Montreal to teach at McGill University and to start his own training as a psychoanalyst. Kets de Vries influenced many scholars in Canada, including Laurent Lapierre, Alain Noel, and Danny Miller.

The early work of this diverse group of scholars provided the stimulus for the first International Symposium on Applied Psychoanalysis and Organizations in 1980, organized by Michael Hofmann of the Wirtschaftsuniversität of Vienna (in collaboration with the Vienna Psychoanalytic Society). A further impetus came from Leopold Gruenfeld, who organized a number of conferences under the auspices of Cornell University. Eventually, in 1983, these various symposia led to the founding of the International Society for the Psychoanalytic Study of Organizations (ISPSO); by the early 2000s, ISPSO had a worldwide reach. The vision of ISPSO is to provide “a forum for academics, clinicians, consultants and others interested in working in and with organizations utilizing psychoanalytic concepts and insights” (www.ispso.org).

People working at the interface of psychoanalysis and organizations placed a high value on addressing practical problems and opportunities in social systems from a simultaneous or sequentially deep (psychodynamic) and broad (organizational theory) perspective. For example, Levinson proposed the concept of a “psychological contract” between leaders and followers, arguing in Men, Management and Mental Health (1962) that if management did not pay attention to the conscious and subconscious needs of their employees, organizational performance would be adversely affected. Levinson’s seminal book Organizational Diagnosis outlined a new, clinical contribution to the diagnosis of systemic organizational problems (1972). Zaleznik (1989) argued that business people focused too much on process and structure, and not enough on ideas and emotions, and suggested that leaders should relate to followers in more empathetic and intuitive ways. To emphasize this point, in Power and the Corporate Mind Zaleznik & Kets de Vries (1975) applied concepts from psychoanalysis, political science, and management theory to examine the effect that the conscious and unconscious motivations of the chief executive has upon his or her organization. In The Neurotic Organization, Kets de Vries & Miller (1984) integrated psychiatric and psychological findings and insights with organizational behavior theories to create a new framework for analysis of organizations, proposing that the neuroses of a top leader can be recreated throughout the organization.

Larry Hirschhorn (1988) used the term “applied clinical practice” to describe organizational consulting interventions that included diagnostic methods and actions based on a clinical, applied approach: exploring the organization systemically and drawing on personality theory and group and organizational processes. Hirschhorn’s seminal work The ­Workplace Within: Psychodynamics of Organizational Life (1988) opened the door to a better understanding of the irrational and emotional character of organizations and how to create healthier organizational cultures. Hirschhorn proposed a systemic, psychodynamic model of work that entailed working with real clients on practical outcomes by addressing the hidden and unconscious mechanisms underlying patterns of organizational behavior.

Neumann and Hirschhorn (in a special issue of Human Relations) referred to the ­difficulties of integrating psychodynamic theory and organizational theory. It was a challenging task, they wrote, because of the “limited degree to which those working with psychodynamic theories have managed to also relate to organizational theories, and vice versa” (Neumann & Hirschhorn, 1999, p. 683). A too-narrowly focused psychodynamic approach could limit the scope of interventions to the unconscious motivation of individuals and groups. Conversely, a broader organizational-theory perspective that focuses on large systems or environments might overlook major sources of motivation and energy that are imperceptible at the organizational level but influential at the individual level. However, they argued, integrating psychodynamic and organizational theories would promote better analysis of the “motivational forces in individuals, groups and their leaders in the context of structures and processes within major subsystems, organizations, and their environments—and vice versa” (Neumann & Hirschhorn, 1999, p. 685).





4.4 Integrating Leadership Theories and the Psychodynamic Paradigm


Despite a growing interest in applying psychodynamic concepts to the study of ­organizations, most attempts to conceptualize leadership—trait or “Great Man” theory (e.g. Stogdill, 1948); contingency theory (e.g. Fielder, 1964; Vroom & Yetten, 1973); and leader–member exchange (LMX) theory (e.g. Bass & Bass, 2008; Graen et al., 1982; Pierce & Newstrom, 2000)—did not directly address subconscious forces in human behavior. However, transformational and charismatic leadership theories (e.g. Bass, 1985; Burns, 1978; Conger & Kanungo, 1987; Deluga, 1988; House, 1977; Podsakoff, et al, 1990; Shamir et al., 1993) began to challenge the field of leadership studies with the question of how the interplay between a leader and followers—for example, their mutual needs, beliefs, and values—affects the followers’ deep engagement in the interests of the leader’s vision. In addressing these issues, insights and methodologies drawn from a psychodynamic approach became increasingly relevant. The importance of emotions, the significance of earlier life experiences, and the dynamics of interpersonal relationships were themes that scholars took up and applied to new theories of leadership.

To develop the conceptual links between leadership and follower attitudes, behaviors, and performance outcomes, Avolio et al. (2004) proposed a theoretical framework that outlined the processes by which leaders exert influence over followers. They looked at the ways leadership is linked to followers’ attitudes and behaviors, and the ways in which the intervening variables such as hope, trust, positive emotions, and optimism might be enhanced. Authentic leadership, as they described it, is positively related to followers’ personal identification with the leader, and their social identification with the organization. This identification is created through leadership behaviors that allow followers to see their personal self-concepts and objectives reflected in the goals of their organization. The psychoanalytic concept of “projective identification”—a psychological mechanism of transferring to someone else one’s own unacceptable, but desired, ideas or impulses—describes the process by which an individual projects his own ideal self on to someone he or she admires. A leader emerges when a group of followers projects their self-ideal on to the same admired person and a “group-ego ideal” comes into being (Freud, 1921; Kets de Vries, 2011b; Ogden, 1977; Schwartz, 1990).

Followers’ identification with the leader also helps the leader to play a role in instilling hope in their followers—and this reflects the notion of followers’ agency (goal-directed energy) and the determination and belief that goals can be planned for and attained (­Snyder, 2000). Research evidence confirms that trust in leadership is related to positive organizational outcomes (Dirks & Ferrin, 2002) and positive follower performances and attitudes, such as high job satisfaction and organizational commitment (Butler et al., 1999; Dirks & Ferrin, 2002). Followers who believe in their leaders’ abilities, integrity, and benevolence are more willing to engage in risk-taking behaviors (Mayer et al., 1995). Leaders establish a foundation for trust and intimacy with followers by transparently displaying their own capacities, values, hopes, and weaknesses to the followers, and allowing or even encouraging the followers to express themselves equally (Avolio et al., 2004).

It has also been well established that emotional attachment between leaders and ­followers is a key factor in successful leadership (Bass, 1985; Gardner & Avolio, 1998), and that, perhaps not surprisingly, transformational leadership behaviors are associated with higher levels of emotional intelligence (George, 2000), which in the context of leadership has been described as “the ability to effectively join emotions and reasoning, using emotions to facilitate reasoning, and reasoning intelligently about emotions” (Mayer & Salovey, 1997). Van Maanen & Kunda (1989) concluded that management of organizational culture is, in fact, management of emotions.

Avolio and his coauthors proposed that “followers’ positive emotions are positively related to followers’ optimism; and optimism mediates the relationship between followers’ positive emotions and followers’ positive attitudes, which in turn influences followers’ behaviors” (Avolio et al., 2004, p. 814). If we accept this proposal, then it becomes ­evident that one of the psychodynamically-informed leader’s key tasks is to build and maintain followers’ self-confidence, hopefulness, optimism, and resilience (Gardner & Schermerhorn, 2004), by drawing on his or her own capacity for emotional intelligence (George, 2003).

The continual fine-tuning of self-awareness, self-regulation, and positive modeling on the part of leaders allows them to shape the behavior of followers, resulting in followers’ successful and sustainable performance (Avolio & Gardner, 2005). Gardner & Schermerhorn (2004) made a link between leadership authenticity and Bandura’s (2000) four sources of follower self-efficacy (successful experiences; vicarious learning; coaching and encouragement; and managing physiological states and emotional threat of failure); they proposed that “authentic leaders persuade others to recognize their capabilities and provide them with important cognitive, emotional and moral support that facilitates further development” (Gardner & Schermerhorn, 2004, p. 274).





4.5 A Psychodynamic Approach to Leadership Development


As it became apparent that the hidden dynamics of individual leaders and groups could influence organizational outcomes, the issue of how to develop leaders also became more topical. Technical training was important, but “soft” skills were also necessary, and in many cases arguably even harder to learn. Organizational leaders themselves realized this, and sought to include human issues in strategic planning. In answer, by the early 2000s most leadership-development interventions, whether in business schools or in companies, began to include experiential opportunities for participants to revisit their past experiences and reshape their future goals, on individual, group, and/or systemic levels (Kets de Vries & Korotov, 2007, 2011). “Know thyself” became the leader’s mantra, as leadership scholars brought psychodynamic methods of leadership development—including peer-group work, psychodynamically-oriented 360-degree questionnaires (e.g. Kets de Vries et al., 2004, 2006, 2010), executive coaching, and personal narratives—into the classroom (e.g. Snook et al., 2011).

While laying out the framework and models of leadership, scholars called in parallel for a better understanding of how leadership can be taught (Avolio et al., 2004). Here again, the psychodynamic approach provides rich veins of knowledge about the nature of authority, the processes of followership, and the reverberation of emotions within organizations. Taking the stance of exploring from within, Luthans & Avolio (2003) proposed that a leader’s personal history—including family and cultural background and early life experiences—and trigger events—such as difficult challenges—are potential antecedents to leadership capabilities. Stating that it appeared that life itself was the most authentic leadership-development process, Avolio et al. (2004) made a request for further research into how to improve on “life’s program of leadership development, making it more efficient, cost effective, and less risky” (p. 816.) Ibarra et al. (2010) proposed that a fruitful future avenue for understanding leadership development would be an exploration of the identity change required to prepare an individual for an active leadership role. Recently, literature on human resource management, leadership development, and executive education has started to incorporate the psychodynamic concepts of human development into the process of managerial learning and growth (Cerdin & Dubouloy, 2004; Dubouloy, 2004; Kets de Vries & Korotov, 2007; Korotov, 2005; Petriglieri & Petriglieri, 2010; Petriglieri et al., 2011).

Leadership development is a process that can and should take place continually, within the workplace and in other locations (Fulmer, 1997). Recognizing a need to identify a more structured approach, Day (2000) suggested that the primary emphasis in leadership development should be on building and using interpersonal competence, and taking a combined approach of individualistic, shared, and relational experiences; that is, a focus on the individual in a holistic and systemic context. To be effective, Day advised, leadership development should help people move to a higher level of both differentiation—that is, understanding the ways in which the individual leader is unique and different from others—and integration—which implies the ways in which the leader applies self-­knowledge in order to better relate to others, build commitment, and extend social ­networks. Day (2000) identified practices that could be applied to improving or understanding leadership development in the context of work. These included 360-degree feedback surveys, coaching and mentoring, network-building, challenging job assignments, and “action-learning” projects that incorporate a degree of training and learning.

Chang & Diddams (2008) also warned that leaders must be aware of the human ­tendency to self-deception, and should be capable of dealing with “self-insight flaws.” Chang and Diddams thus introduced humility as a key concept in leadership, which they argued implied an openness to concede imperfections that is not contingent on humiliation or loss of self-esteem, but rather indicates an orientation towards others and away from self-preoccupation. In other words, they warned against delimiting leadership with exclusively positive characteristics.

Following his earlier work on the psychodynamic approach to the study of leaders in organizations, Kets de Vries (2005) argued that to be more effective in developing reflective leaders, leadership-development programs should integrate a clinical orientation, because this paradigm provides a solid framework for designing executive programs in which participants learn to become “organizational detectives,” uncovering the nonrational patterns—the intrapsychic and interpersonal undercurrents—that influence the behavior of individuals (themselves and others), dyads, and groups. As he wrote in Sex, Money, Happiness and Death (Kets de Vries, 2009b), there are mega-issues with which many leaders struggle. One of the objectives of the psychodynamically-oriented leadership-development program is to create an educational opportunity for participants that provokes, among other things, an exploration of hidden or unconscious rationales—often related in some way to sexuality, financial issues, a search for happiness and meaning, or fears of mortality—for what may appear to be irrational career choices and leadership decisions.

In clinically-oriented leadership-development programs, group dynamic effects, such as social reciprocity, peer pressure, and network contagion, are harnessed—and analyzed by participants themselves—through peer-group coaching structures to help participants uncover blind spots, identify behaviors for change, and experiment with new behaviors in their workplace that will help them advance in their career trajectory and future goals (Dubouloy, 2004; Kets de Vries, 2005, 2011a, 2011b; Kets de Vries & Korotov, 2011).

In these programs, participants are encouraged by faculty and peers to experiment with transcendence of the self (Summers, 2000), shaped by task, social, and emotional feedback. Mirvis (2008) suggested that executive programs may be, under some circumstances, a “consciousness raising” experience that cultivates participants’ self-awareness, deepens their understanding of others, and helps them to relate to society. Some of these programs may even be described by the participants themselves as what Bennis and Thomas called “a transformative experience through which an individual comes to a new or altered sense of identity” (Bennis and Thomas, 2002; Cooper et al., 2005; Florent-Treacy, 2009; Kets de Vries & Korotov; 2007).

Any leadership-development program that seeks to help participants develop “self-concept clarity” (Shamir & Eilam, 2005) will have to acknowledge and work with the fact that for most people, this is a terribly difficult, if not simply terrifying, leap into the unknown. One of the most powerful and effective experiences in leadership programs is the creation of the cognitive and emotional tipping points that will help participants to see the discrepancies in their lives and the valence of their own individual change process and goals.

The framework of this type of program can be seen as an adaptation of traditional psychodynamic group-therapy methods to the business-school classroom (Florent-Treacy, 2009). Indeed, in some programs in which leadership development is a key objective, a critical success factor is the ability to create a safe transitional space (Carson, 1997; ­Korotov, 2005; Winnecott, 1951) in which a somewhat adapted form of what has been called “corrective emotional moments” (Alexander & French, 1946; Jacobs, 1990; Yalom, 2005) drives behavioral change. Although in psychotherapy literature the concept of corrective emotional moments has been in and out of fashion over the years (Knight, 2004), the theory helps to describe and explain the tipping points that push participants to make a connection between their current choices in life and their past experiences. In this case, group psychotherapy practice has been adapted to the classroom in that the “corrective” element, and support for sense-making, is provided not by a therapist but by fellow participants and faculty members (Korotov, 2005).





4.6 Organizational Coaching and Consultation


Organizational diagnosis and intervention to foster individual and system-wide change is part and parcel of life in organizations. Unfortunately, many people dedicated to change—change agents, consultants, and coaches, for example—are inclined to focus on the symptoms and not on the underlying causes. Following a philosophy that what cannot be directly seen doesn’t really exist, they resort to oversimplified quick fixes in trying to institute change (Levinson, 2002). A behavioral-modification program may have a positive effect, to be sure—but that effect will not last long. The expertise provided by traditional management consultants and coaches can often be valuable in the right context, but might end up being costly or even harmful if the organizational problems arise from interpersonal communication, group processes, social defenses, uneven leadership, or organization-wide neurosis. Here, a more appropriate intervention would be clinically-informed and systemic, focusing on the levers that drive individual and organizational change.

Executive coaches and consultants who are aware of the hidden undercurrents know how to help bring about the necessary relinquishment of defenses, encourage the expression of emotions in a situation-appropriate manner, and cultivate a perception of self and others that is in accord with reality (Kets de Vries, 2006; McCullough Vaillant, 1997). In addition, they consider their own emotional reactions to people in the organization as an important source of data (Kets de Vries et al., 2007, 2010; Korotov et al., 2011; Sandler, 2011). What differentiates these consultants from their more traditional counterparts is their skill at using transferential and countertransferential manifestations as a basic experiential and diagnostic tool; their understanding of organizational defense mechanisms; and their ability to ­decipher unconscious thoughts and feelings (Diamond & Allcorn, 2003). The ­ever-present “triangle of relationships”—comprising the person being interviewed, some significant past “other” from that person’s life, and the change agent/consultant/coach—provides a conceptual structure for assessing and pointing out patterns of responses that link past and present relationships. Thus, self-awareness is one of the most valuable tools used by a ­clinically informed consultant and coach (Brunning, 2006; Kets de Vries, 2002).

A clinically-informed coach also recognizes the importance of projective identification. A psychological defense against unwanted feelings or fantasies, projective identification is a mode of communication as well as a type of interpersonal relationship (Ogden, 1977). For example, if executives in a department deny or reject an uncomfortable experience by imagining that it belongs to another group of executives, the latter group—the recipients of the projection—is subtly inducted to think, feel, and act in congruence with the projection received from the former.

By paying attention to behavioral patterns that may have their origin in clients’ earlier life experiences, clinically-informed consultants and coaches look for thematic unity (Kets de Vries, 2011a). They then employ pattern-matching, looking for structural parallels within multilayered relationships and between current events and earlier incidents. They know that any aspect of the organizational “script” can have more than one meaning and can be viewed from different perspectives. Creating meaning at multiple levels helps the consultants and coaches determine the individual and organizational roots and consequences of actions and decisions. When the link between present and distant past ­relationships is made meaningful to people at all levels of the organization, the process of large-scale change is more likely to be successful.

Since the aim of a clinical intervention is not just symptom suppression—not merely a “flight into health”—but durable, sustainable change, clinical consultants must always be attentive to hidden agendas and the presence of complex psychological resistances. Identifying and addressing the organization’s core psychological concerns quickly is important for a successful intervention. By addressing these issues—by making conscious what had been unconscious and then working to address behavior patterns determined to be ­dysfunctional—the consultant and the organization’s leadership together can disable ­prevailing social defenses and heal organizational neurosis.

Finally, clinically-informed consultants and coaches strive to instill in the organization’s leaders an interest in and understanding of their own behavior. Ideally, those leaders will eventually internalize the ability to learn and work in the psychological realm, allowing them to address future issues without the help of a consultant.





4.7 Psychodynamic Issues in Leadership: Future Challenges and Trends


One of the challenges of the psychodynamic approach to leadership is the appropriateness of research methodologies used and their acceptance by “traditional” streams in leadership research. Leadership studies are often faulted for causality problems, thus making it difficult to prove how leadership impacts outcomes for a social group or organization (Bass & Bass, 2008). Psychodynamic leadership research theories sometimes meet resistance given the emphasis on interpretive methods. However, Prins (2006) suggested that the subjective experiences of the researcher within the psychodynamic paradigm can be in fact used productively as additional data. Loch (2010) outlined an interesting framework connecting the psychodynamic approach with the management-science paradigm. Loch (2010) argued that bringing together the systems view, where roles are important to understanding of managerial phenomena, with a psychodynamic perspective, which seeks an integrated understanding of a manager’s motivation, could help overcome the limitations of both approaches in figuring out what actually takes place in the world of modern organizations. Perhaps it is still best to consider the psychodynamic approach as a perspective for looking at social systems that encapsulates an evolving body of knowledge, and as a method of inquiry that lends itself specifically to interventions for action and change (Vansina & Vansina-Cobaret, 2008).

Although a psychodynamic approach to the study and practice of leadership is valued by many as an essential tool for understanding the hidden but influential emotional life of organizations, difficult issues remain. With reason, many scholars and practitioners fear the danger of going too far, crossing boundaries into realms that are more safely explored with the guidance of a therapist. Leadership coaching, for example, is an area that is still unregulated and attracts practitioners with widely varying levels of experience (Korotov et al., 2011). Another issue is the widespread belief that exploring hidden undercurrents takes time that would be better spent on activities that affect the organization’s bottom line in a more quantifiable way. Furthermore, many organization leaders believe that permitting a developmental coaching culture in their company—in other words, directly addressing psychodynamic issues in leadership—might open a Pandora’s box of complaints that would distract human resources from more urgent problems. In addition, systems-psychodynamic organizational interventions, despite a 50-year developmental history, are still notoriously complex and difficult to design and carry out effectively. Finally, a heavy-handed psychodynamic approach to leadership development may be met with strong resistance in certain national cultures or industries, where insistence on “trust” and “openness” and a focus on the individual are still considered to be inappropriate.

Despite these challenges and concerns, an increasing number of practitioners and scholars have come to realize that the use of psychodynamic concepts can provide greater insight into the vexing problems concerning individuals, groups, and organizational systems. A burgeoning interest in related topics such as leadership, corporate culture, family business, organizational stress, career dynamics, leadership coaching, group behavior, and organizational change and transformation has focused attention on the systems-psychodynamic point of view (Amado & Vansina, 2005; Czander, 1993; DeBoard, 1978; Diamond, 1993; Diamond & Allcorn, 2009; Eisold, 2010; Gabriel, 1999; Gilmore & Krantz, 1985; Gould et al., 2001; Huffington et al, 2004; Kets de Vries, 1984, 1991, 2011; Kets de Vries & Miller, 1984; Kets de Vries et al., 2007; Krantz, 2010; Obholzer & Zagier Roberts, 1994).

By remaining close to the fundamental argument that there is more to human behavior than meets the eye, scholars of leadership and organization have been able to use a psychodynamic lens to explore, for example, the internal motivational drivers that influence leaders’ decision-making, the psychological factors that hamper or encourage leadership, and the corollary, transactional relationships between leaders and followers. The psychodynamic approach has also been proven over time to be an effective way of exploring leadership roles that are critical but are often difficult to define or measure, such as the sense-maker, the purveyor of hope, and the container of anxieties (Kets de Vries, 2011). Indeed, one of the strengths of the psychodynamic approach is its fundamental ­universality—it addresses issues that are found in organizations large and small, in every part of the world.





4.8 Final Reflections


Vast numbers of organizations around the world complain that there is a dissonance between what their leaders say and what they do. This will remain a truism if those leaders are not able to reflect on their own behavior and that of their followers. It is ironic that, while people see value in learning new skills, they rarely see value in looking at the ingrained character patterns they bring to the use of those skills. Yet it is those very patterns that dictate their behavior and their decisions. As long as such patterns are unconscious, leaders will struggle to align espoused theory with practice.

Responsible leadership requires a solid dose of emotional intelligence and the increased personal responsibility and effectiveness that comes with it. Unfortunately—as we have indicated—unearthing mental and emotional patterns that dictate behavior can be both uncomfortable and disorienting. Therefore, professional expertise and support can be helpful in uncovering psychological drivers and making the personal shift necessary to improve emotional intelligence. For their part, leaders need to accept that this kind of intervention takes time, but that any time applied to improving their emotional intelligence will be well spent. Such activity is done not just for personal gratification (though it is personally rewarding) but also for the good of the organization and its people. This approach will contribute to better places to work.

Those organizations that are the best to work at are what we like to call “authentizotic,” a label that melds the Greek words authenteekos (authentic) and zoteekos (vital to life). Authenteekos implies that the organization has a compelling connective quality for its employees in its vision, mission, culture, and structure. In such organizations, the leadership has communicated clearly and convincingly not only the how of work but also the why. The organization’s leaders walk the talk—they set the example. Zoteekos contributes to a sense of personal wholeness, making people feel complete and alive. It allows for self-assertion in the workplace, creating a sense of effectiveness and competency, autonomy, initiative, creativity, entrepreneurship, and industry (Kets de Vries, 2001a).

The challenge for 21st-century leadership is to create organizations that possess these qualities. Authentizotic organizations are easily recognized: employees maintain a healthy balance between personal and organizational life; they are offered—and gladly take—time for self-examination; and they constantly question themselves and others about individual and corporate actions and decisions. Authentizotic organizations equip their people to think. With these impressive characteristics, authentizotic organizations will be the winners in tomorrow’s marketplace, able to deal with the continuous and discontinuous change that the new global economy demands. To create such organizations, the systems-psychodynamic lens helps engagement in more realistic, enduring interventions. To quote the writer Anaïs Nin, “Our life is composed greatly from dreams, from the unconscious, and they must be brought into connection with action. They must be woven together.”

It is now evident that psychodynamic issues in leadership include not only the lived, human experience of leaders in organizations, but are also to be found in the way scholars and practitioners describe, measure, and intervene in that experience. The psychodynamic lens provides new insights not only into how people become leaders, but also into how they interact with followers, and how their individual psychodynamic histories can influence the equilibria of organizational systems. As such, when wielded properly, a psychodynamic approach is a powerful tool. But it can be a two-edged sword. As a willingness to look “within” becomes a mainstream, desirable leadership capability, the risk is that the same dangers that were originally identified in psychoanalysis may resurface. It has become all too common for leaders, scholars, and consultants to indulge in “wild analysis,” ­proposing interpretations or interventions that are not bounded by protocols for confidentiality and safety (Zaleznik, 2007). Executive coaching, for example, remains a relatively unregulated profession, in which irresponsible coaches, dabbling in a psychodynamic approach to leadership issues, have the potential to do great harm (Berglas, 2002). In leadership development, experiential programs in business schools have created powerful learning opportunities for leaders who need to take the time out to reflect. At the same time, equal attention must still be paid in these programs to skill-building and technical expertise. Otherwise, a psychodynamic sensitivity to the vicissitudes of organizational life may eventually fall out of favor as a valid leadership competency. Similarly, although ­psychodynamic issues arise from human experience and are therefore universal, not all ­cultures or worldviews are equal in the way these issues are addressed. In the final analysis, therefore, it is essential to be aware of the psychodynamic undercurrents inherent in ­leadership, but above all, to do no harm.





References


Alexander, F. & French, T.M. (1946). Psychoanalytic Therapy. New York: Ronald Press.

Amado, G. & Vansina, L. (2005). The Transitional Approach in Action. London: Karnac.

Anzieu, D. (1972). Le travail psychanalytique dans les groupes. Paris: Dunod.

Anzieu, D. (1999). Le groupe et l’inconscient. L’imaginaire groupal. Paris: Dunod.

Argyris, C. (1990). Overcoming Organizational Defenses. Boston: Allyn & Bacon

Arnaud, G. (2007). Power and organizational work: Gérard Mendel’s socio-psychoanalysis. Organizational Studies, 28(3), 409–428.

Avolio, B.J. & Garder, W.L. (2005). Authentic leadership development: getting to the root of positive forms of leadership. The Leadership Quarterly, 16, 315–338.

Avolio, B.J., Gardner, W.L., Walumba, F.O., Luthans, F., & May, D.R. (2004). Unlocking the mask: a look at the process by which authentic leaders impact follower attitudes and behaviors. The Leadership Quarterly, 15, 801–823.

Bandura, A. (1989). Perceived self-efficacy in the exercise of personal agency. The Psychologist: Bulletin of British Psychological Society, 10, 411–424.

Bandura, A. (2000). Cultivate self-efficacy for personal and organizational effectiveness. In Locke, E., editor. The Blackwell Handbook of Principles of Organizational Behavior. Oxford: Blackwell.

Barron, J.W., Eagle, M.N., & Wolitzky, D.L. (1992). Interface of psychology and psychoanalysis. Washington, DC: American Psychological Association.

Bass, B. (1985). Leadership and Performance beyond Expectation. New York: Free Press.

Bass, B. & Bass, R. (2008). The Bass Handbook of Leadership: Theory, Research, & Managerial Applications, 4th edition. New York: Free Press.

Berglas, S. (2002). The Very Real Dangers of Executive Coaching. Harvard Business Review, 80, 86–92.

Bennis, W. & Nanus, B. (1985). Leadership. New York: Harper & Row.

Bennis, W.G. & Thomas, R.J. (2002). Crucibles of Leadership. Harvard Business Review, September, 5–11.

Bion, W.R. (1959). Experiences in Groups. London, Tavistock.

Bowlby, J. (1969). Attachment and Loss. New York, Basic Books.

Brunning, H., editor. (2006). Executive Coaching: Systems-Psychodynamic Perspective. London: Karnac Books.

Burns, J.M. (1978). Leadership. New York: Harper and Row.

Butler, J.K., Cantrell, R.S., & Flick, R.J. (1999). Transformational leadership behaviors, Upward Trust, and Satisfaction in Self-managed Work Teams. Organizational Development Journal, 17, 13–28.

Carson, T. (1997). Liminal Reality and Transformational Power. Lanhamm, NY, and Oxford: University Press of America.

Cerdin, J.-L. & Dubouloy, M. (2004). Expatriation as a maturation opportunity: a psychoanalytical approach based on “copy and paste.” Human Relations, 57(8), 957–981.

Chang, G. & Diddams, M. (2008). Hubris or humility: cautions surrounding the construct and self-definition of authentic leadership. Academy of Management Proceedings.

Conger, J.A. (1990). The dark side of leadership. Organizational Dynamics, Autumn, 44–45.

Conger, J.A. & Kanungo, R.N. (1987). Toward a behavioral theory of charismatic leadership in organizational settings. Academy of Management Review, 12(4), 637–647.

Cooper, C., Scandura, T., & Schriesheim, C. (2005). Looking forward but learning from our past: potential challenges to developing authentic leadership theory and authentic leaders. The Leadership Quarterly, 16, 475–493.

Czander, W.M. (1993). The Psychodynamics of Work and Organizations. New York, Guilford Press.

Darwin, C. (1920). The Expression of Emotion in Man and Animals. New York, Appleton-Century-Crofts.

Day, D. (2000). Leadership development: a review in context. Leadership Quarterly, 11(4), 581–613.

DeBoard, R. (1978). The Psychoanalysis of Organisations. London, Routledge.

Deluga, R.J. (1988). Relationship of Transformational and Transactional Leadership with Employee Influencing Strategies. Group and Organization Studies, 13(4), 456–457.

Diamond, M.A. (1993). The Unconscious Life of Organizations: Interpreting Organizational Identity. Westport, CT: Quorum Books.

Diamond, M.A. & Allcorn, S. (2003). Psychoanalytic perspective on organizational consulting: transference and counter-transference. Human Relations, 56, 475.

Diamond, M.A. & Allcorn, S. (2009). Private Selves in Public Organizations: The Psychodynamics of Organizational Diagnosis and Change. New York: Palgrave Macmillan.

Dirk, K.T. & Ferrin, D.L. (2002). Trust in leadership: meta-analytic findings and implications for research and practice. Journal of Applied Psychology, 87, 611–628.

Dubouloy, M. (2004). The transitional space and self-recovery: a psychoanalytical approach to high-potential managers’ training. Human Relations, 57(4), 467–496.

Eisold, K. (2010). What You Don’t Know You Know. New York: Other Press.

Emde, R.N. (1980). Toward a psychoanalytic theory of affect: II. emerging models of emotional development in infancy. In S. Greenspan & G. Pollock, editors. The Course of Life: Psychoanalytic Contributions toward Understanding Personality Development. Vol. I: Infancy and Early Childhood. Washington, DC: US Government Printing Office. pp. 85–112.

Enriquez, E. (1992). L’Organisation en analyse. Paris: Presses Universitaires de France.

Erikson, E.H. (1963). Childhood and Society. New York: W.W. Norton & Society.

Etchegoyen, R.H. (1991). The Fundamentals of Psychoanalytic Technique. London: Karnac Books.

Fiedler, F.E. (1964). A Theory of Leader Effectiveness. New York: McGraw Hill.

Florent-Treacy, E. (2009). Behind the Scenes in the Identity Laboratory: Participants’ Narratives of Identity Transition through Group Coaching in a Leadership Development Program. International Coaching Psychology Review, 4(1).

Freud, A. (1966). The Ego and the Mechanisms of Defense. Madison, CN: International Universities Press.

Freud, S. (1900). The interpretation of dreams (first part). In J. Strachey, translator and editor (1953). The Standard Edition of the Complete Psychological Works of Sigmund Freud, Volume IV. London: The Hogarth Press and the Institute of Psychoanalysis.

Freud, S. (1905). Fragment of an analysis of a case of hysteria. In J. Strachey (translator and editor) (1960). The Standard Edition of the Complete Psychological Works of Sigmund Freud, Volume VII. London: The Hogarth Press and the Institute of Psychoanalysis.

Freud, S. (1914). On narcissism. In J. Strachey (translator and editor) (1957). The Standard Edition of the Complete Psychological Works of Sigmund Freud, Volume XIV. London: The Hogarth Press and the Institute of Psychoanalysis.

Freud, S. (1921). Group psychology and the analysis of the ego. In J. Strachey (translator and editor) (1955). The Standard Edition of the Complete Psychological Works of Sigmund Freud, Volume XVIII. London: The Hogarth Press and the Institute of Psychoanalysis.

Freud, S. (1930). Civilization and its Discontents. In J.Strachey (translator and editor) (1961). The Standard Edition of the Complete Psychological Works of Sigmund Freud, Volume XXI. London: The Hogarth Press and the Institute of Psychoanalysis, 1968.

Fulmer, R. (1997). The evolving paradigm of leadership development. Organizational Dynamics, 25(4), 59–72.

Gabriel, Y. (1999). Organizations in Depth. London: Sage.

Gardner, W.L. & Schermerhorn, J.R. (2004). Unleashing individual potential: performance gains through positive organizational behavior and authentic leadership. Organizational Dynamics, 33, 270–281

Gardner, W.L. & Avolio, B. (1998). The charismatic relationship: a dramaturgical perspective. Academy of Management Review, 23, 32–58.

George, J.M. (2000). Emotions and leadership: the role of emotional intelligence. Human Relations, 53, 1027–1055.

George, W. (2003). Authentic leadership: rediscovering the secrets to creating lasting value. San Francisco: Jossey-Bass.

Gilmore, T. & Krantz, J. (1985). Projective identification in the consulting relationship: exploring the unconscious dimensions of a client system. Human Relations, 38(12), 1159–1177.

Gould, L., Stapley, L., & Stein, M., editors. (2001). The Systems Psychodynamics of Organizations: Integrating the Group Relations, Psychoanalytic, and Open Systems Perspectives. London: Karnac.

Graen, G., Liden, R., & Hoel, W. (1982). Role of leadership in the employee withdrawal process. Journal of Applied Psychology, 67, 868–872.

Heifetz, R.A. & Linsky, M. (2002). Leadership on the Line: Staying Alive through the Dangers of Leading. Boston, MA: Harvard Business School Press.

Hirschhorn, L. (1988). The Workplace Within: Psychodynamics of Organizational Life. Cambridge, MA: The MIT Press.

House, R.J. (1977). A 1976 theory of charismatic leadership. In J.G. Hunt & K. Rowland, K., editors. The Cutting Edge of Leadership. Carbondale, IL, Southern University Press.

Huffington, C., Armstrong, D., Halton, W., Hoyle, L., & Pooley, J. (2004). Working Below the Surface: The Emotional Life of Contemporary Organizations. London: Karnac

Ibarra, H., Snook, S., & Guillén L. (2010). Identity-based leader development. In N. Nohria & R. Khurana, editors. Handbook of Leadership Theory and Practice. Boston, MA: Harvard Business Press. pp. 657–678.

Jacobs, T. (1990). The corrective emotional moment: its place in current technique. Psychoanalytic Inquiry, 10(3).

Jaques, E. (1951). The Changing Culture of a Factory. London: Routledge.

Jaques, E. (1955). Social systems as a defense against persecutory and depressive anxiety. In M. Klein, P. Heimann, & R.E. Money-Kyrle, editors. New Directions in Psychoanalysis. London: Tavistock.

Jaques, E. (1970). Work, Creativity, and Social Justice. New York: International Universities Press.

Kaës, R. (1993). Le groupe et le sujet du groupe. Paris: Dunod.

Kagan, J. (1994). Nature of the Child. New York: Basic Books.

Kagan, J. & Moss, H.A. (1983). Birth to Maturity: A Study in Psychological Development. New Haven, MA: Yale University Press.

Kernberg, O. (1975). Borderline Conditions and Pathological Narcissism. New York, Aronson.

Kernberg, O. (1978). Leadership and Organizational Functioning: Organizational Regression. International Journal of Group Psychotherapy, 28(1), 3–25.

Kets de Vries, M.F.R. (1979). Managers can Drive their Subordinates Mad. Harvard Business Review, July–August, 125–134.

Kets de Vries, M.F.R. (1980). Organizational Paradoxes: Clinical Approaches to Management. London: Tavistock Publications.

Kets de Vries, M.F.R., editor. (1984). The Irrational Executive: Psychoanalytic Explorations in Management. New York: International Universities Press.

Kets de Vries, M.F.R. (1985). Narcissism and leadership: an object relations perspective. Human Relations, 38, 583–601.

Kets de Vries, M.F.R. (1989). Leaders who self-destruct: the causes and cures. Organizational Dynamics, 17(4), 4–17.

Kets de Vries, M.F.R., editor. (1991). Organizations on the Couch. San Francisco, Jossey-Bass.

Kets de Vries, M.F.R. (2001a). Creating authentizotic organizations: well-functioning individuals in vibrant companies. Human Relations, 54(1), 101–111.

Kets de Vries, M.F.R. (2001b). Struggling with the Demon: Perspectives on Individual and Organizational Irrationality. Madison: Psychosocial Press.

Kets de Vries, M.F.R. (2001c). The Leadership Mystique: A User’s Manual for the Human Enterprise. New York: Financial Times Prentice Hall.

Kets de Vries, M.F.R. (2004). Lessons on Leadership by Terror: Finding Shaka Zulu in the Attic. London: Edgar Allen.

Kets de Vries, M.F.R. (2005). Leadership Group Coaching in Action: The Zen of Creating High Performance Teams. Academy of Management Executive, 19(1), 61–76.

Kets de Vries, M.F.R. (2006). The Leader on the Couch: A Clinical Approach to Changing People & Organizations. San Francisco: Jossey-Bass.

Kets de Vries, M.F.R. (2009a). Reflections on Leadership and Character. London: Wiley.

Kets de Vries, M.F.R. (2009b). Sex, Money, Happiness and Death. London: Palgrave Macmillan.

Kets de Vries, M.F.R. (2011a). Reflections on Groups and Organizations: On the Couch with Manfred Kets de Vries. London: Wiley.

Kets de Vries, M.F.R. (2011b). The Hedgehog Effect: The Secrets of Building High Performance Teams. London: Wiley.

Kets de Vries, M.F.R. & Carlock, R., with Florent-Treacy, E. (2007). Family Business on the Couch: A Psychological Perspective. West Sussex: John Wiley & Sons.

Kets de Vries, M.F.R. & Miller, D. (1984). The Neurotic Organization. San Francisco, Jossey-Bass.

Kets de Vries, M.F.R. & Miller, D. (1985). Narcissism and leadership: an object relations perspective. Human Relations, 36(6), 583–601.

Kets de Vries, M.F.R. & Korotov, K. (2007). Creating transformation executive education programs. Academy of Management, Learning & Development, 6(3), 375–387.

Kets de Vries, M.F.R. & Korotov, K. (2011). Transformational leadership development programs: creating long-term sustainable change. In S. Snook, N. Nohria, & R. Khurana, editors. The Handbook for Teaching Leadership: Knowing, Being, and Doing. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage.

Kets de Vries, M.F.R., Vrignaud, P., Agrawal, A., & Florent-Treacy, E. (2010). Development and Application of the Leadership Archetype Questionnaire. International Journal of Human Resource Management, 21(15), 2846–2861.

Kets de Vries, M.F.R, Vrignaud, P., Korotov, K., Engellau, E., & Florent-Treacy (2006). The development of the personality audit: a psychodynamic multiple feedback assessment instrument. International Journal of Human Resource Management, 17(5).

Kets de Vries, M.F.R., Vrignaud, P., & Florent-Treacy, E. (2004). The global leadership life inventory: development and psychometric properties of a 360-degree feedback instrument. The International Journal of Human Resource Management, Spring.

Knight, Z. (2004). Patients’ coaching behaviors, transference testing and the corrective emotional experience: transcending the self in psychotherapy. South African Journal of Psychotherapy, 34(1).

Kohlberg, L. (1981). The Philosophy of Moral Development. New York: Harper & Row.

Kohut, H. (1971). The Analysis of the Self. New York: International Universities Press.

Kohut, H. (1985). Self Psychology and the Humanities. New York: W.W. Norton.

Korotov, K. (2005). Identity Laboratories. INSEAD PhD dissertation.

Korotov, K., Florent-Treacy, E., Kets de Vries, M.F.R., & Bernhardt, A. (2011). Tricky Coaching. London: Palgrave Macmillan.

Krantz, J. (2010). The Myth that Binds. Psychoanalytic Perspectives on a Turbulent World. London: Karnac.

Lawrence, W.G. (1998). Social Dreaming @ Work. London: Karnac Books.

Levinson, H. (1962). Men, Management, and Mental Health. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.

Levinson, H. (1972). Organizational Diagnosis. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.

Levinson, H. (2002). Organizational Assessment. Washington, DC: American Psychological Association.

Lichtenberg, J.D. (1991). Psychoanalysis and Infant Research. New York: Lawrence Erlbaum.

Lichtenberg, J.D. & Schonbar, R.A. (1992). Motivation in psychology and psychoanalysis. In J.W. Barron, M.N. Eagle, & D.L. Wolitzky, editors. Interface of Psychoanalysis and Psychology. Washington: American Psychological Association. pp. 11–36.

Loch, C. (2009). Connecting the science of management systems with the clinical paradigm. In M.F.R. Kets de Vries, L. Laura Guillen, K. Korotov, & E. Florent-Treacy, editors. The Coaching Kaleidoscope: Insights from the Inside. London: Palgrave Macmillan.

Luborsky, L. & Crits-Cristoph, P. (1998). Understanding Transference: The Core Conflictual Relationship Theme Method. Washington, DC: American Psychological Organization.

Luthans, F. & Avolio, B. (2003). Authentic leadership: a positive development approach. In K.S. Cameron, J.E. Dutton, & R.E. Quinn, editors. Positive Organizational Scholarship. San Francisco, CA: Berrett-Koehler.

Maccoby, M. (1976). The Gamesman: The New Corporate Leaders. New York: Simon and Schuster.

Mayer, J.D. & Salovey, P. (1997). What is emotional intelligence: implications for educators. In P. Salovey & D. Sluyter, editors. Emotional Development, Emotional Literacy, and Emotional Intelligence. New York: Basic Books.

Mayer, R.C., Davis, J.H., & Schoorman, F.D. (1995). An integrative model of organizational trust. Academy of Management Review, 20, 709–734.

McCullough Vaillant, L. (1997). Changing Character. New York: Basic Books.

McDougall, J. (1985). Theaters of the Mind. New York: Basic Books.

McIntosh, G.L. & Rima, S.D. (2007). Overcoming the Dark Side of Leadership: How to Become an Effective Leader by Confronting Potential Failures. Ada, MI: Baker Books.

Mendel, G. (1968). La révolte contre le père. Paris: Payot.

Menzies Lyth, I. (1959) The functions of social systems as a defence against anxiety: a report on a study of the nursing service of a general hospital. Human Relations, 13, 95–121; reprinted in 1988 in Containing Anxiety in Institutions: Selected Essays, volume 1. Free Association Books. pp. 43–88.

Mitscherlich, A. (1963). Society without the Father: A Contribution to Social Psychology. New York: Harper.

Mitscherlich, A. & Mitscherlich, M. (1975). The Inability to Mourn: Principles of Collective Behavior. New York: Grove Press.

Mirvis, P. (2008). Executive development through consciousness-raising experiences. Academy of Management Learning and Education, 7(2).

Neumann, J.E. & Hirschhorn, L. (1999). The challenge of integrating psychodynamic and organizational theory. Human Relations, 52(6).

Newton, J., Long, S., & Sievers, B. (2006). Coaching in Depth: The Organizational Role Analysis Approach. London: Karnac Books.

Obholzer, A. & Zagier Roberts, V., editors. (1994). The Unconscious at Work. London: Routledge.

Ogden, T.H. (1977). Projective Identification and Psychotherapeutic Technique. New York: Jason Aronson.

Oglensky, B. (1995). Socio-psychoanalytic perspectives on the subordinate. Human Relations, 48(9), 1029–1054.

Petriglieri, G. & Petriglieri, J.L. (2010). Identity workspaces: the case of business schools. Academy of Management Learning & Education, 9, 44–60.

Petriglieri, G., Wood, J.D., & Petriglieri, J.L. (2011). Up close and personal: building foundations for leader’s development through the personalization of management learning. Academy of Management Learning & Education, 10(3).

Pfeffer, J. (1998). The Human Equation: Building Profits by Putting People First. Boston, MA: Harvard Business School Press.

Piaget, J. (1952). The Origins of Intelligence in Children. New York: International Universities Press.

Pierce, J.L. & Newstrom, J.W. (2000). Leaders & The Leadership Process, 2nd edition. Boston: McGraw-Hill.

Pine, F. (1985). Developmental Theory and Clinical Process. New Haven: Yale University Press.

Plutchick, R. (1980). Emotions: A Psycho-evolutionary Synthesis. New York, HarperCollins.

Podsakoff, P.M., MacKenzie, S.B., Moorman, R.H., & Fetter, R. (1990). Transformational leader behaviors and their effects on followers’ trust in leader, satisfaction, and organizational citizenship behaviors. Leadership Quarterly, 1(2), 107–142.

Prins, S. (2006). The psychodynamic perspective in organizational research: making sense of the dynamics of direction setting in emergent collaborative processes. Journal of Occupational and Organizational Psychology, 79, 335–355.

Sandler, C. (2011). Executive Coaching: A Psychodynamic Approach. New York: McGraw-Hill.

Schwartz, H.S. (1990). Narcissistic Process and Corporate Decay: The Theory of the Organization Ideal. New York: New York University Press

Shamir, B. & Eilam, G. (2005). What’s your story? A life-stories approach to authentic leadership development. The Leadership Quarterly, 16, 395–417.

Shamir, B., House, R.J., & Arthur, M.B. (1993). The motivational effects of charismatic leadership: a self-concept based theory. Organizational Science, 4(4), 577–594.

Snook, S., Nohria, N., & Khurana, R., editors. (2011). The Handbook for Teaching Leadership: Knowing, Doing, and Being. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage.

Snyder, C. (2000). Genesis: the birth and growth of hope. In C. Snyder, editor. Handbook of Hope: Theory, Measures, and Applications. San Diego: Academic Press. pp. 25–38.

Stogdill, R.M. (1948). Personal factors associated with leadership: a survey of the literature. Journal of Psychology, 25, 35–71.

Stogdill, R.M. & Bass, B. (1990). Stogdill’s Handbook of Leadership: A Survey of Theory and Research. New York: The Free Press.

Stora, J.B. (2007). When the Body Displaces the Mind: Stress, Trauma and Somatic Disease. London: Karnac.

Summers, F. (2000). Transcending the self: an object relations model of psychoanalytic therapy. Hillsdale, NJ: Analytic Press.

Tomkins, S.S. (1995). Script Theory: Differential Magnification of Affect. Exploring Affect: Selections from the Writings of Silvan S. Tomkins. New York: Cambridge University Press. pp. 312–410.

Van Maanen, J. & Kunda, G. (1989). Real feelings: emotional expression and organizational culture. In B.M. Straw & L.L. Cummings, editors. Research in Organizational Behavior. Greenwich, CT: JAI Press. p. 11

Vansina, L.S. & Vansina-Cobaret, M-J. (2008). Psychodynamics for Consultants and Managers. Chichester, UK: John Wiley & Sons.

Volkan, V.D. (1988.) The Need to Have Enemies and Allies: From Clinical Practice to International Relationships. Northvale, NJ: Jason Aronson.

Vroom, V.H. & Yetton, P.W. (1973). Leadership and Decision Making. Pittsburgh: University of Pittsburgh Press.

Westen, D. (1998). The scientific legacy of Sigmund Freud: toward a psychodynamically informed psychological science. Psychological Bulletin, 124(3), 333–371.

White, R. (1959). Motivation reconsidered: the concept of competence. Psychological Review, 66, 297–333.

Winnecott, D.W. (1951). Through Pediatrics to Psychoanalysis. New York: Basic Books.

Yalom, I. with Leszcs, M. (2005). The Theory and Practice of Group Psychotherapy. New York: Basic Books.

Zaleznik, A. (1966). Human Dilemmas of Leadership. New York: Harper & Row.

Zaleznik, A. (1977). Managers and Leaders: Is There a Difference? Harvard Business Review, May–June.

Zaleznik, A. (1984). Leadership as a Text: An Essay on Interpretation. Paper presented at the 75th Harvard Business School Anniversary Colloquium. Boston, MA.

Zaleznik, A. (1989). The Managerial Mystique: Restoring Leadership in Business. New York: Harper & Row.

Zaleznik, A. (2007). The case for not interpreting unconscious mental life in consulting to ­organizations. In M.F.R. Kets de Vries, L. Florent-Treacy, & K. Korotov, K., editors. Coach and Couch: The Psychology of Making Better Leaders. London: Palgrave Macmillan.

Zaleznik, A. & Kets de Vries, M.F.R. (1975). Power and the Corporate Mind. Oxford: Houghton Mifflin.





5


Do I Trust You to Lead the Way? Exploring Trust and Mistrust in Leader–Follower Relations


Michelle C. Bligh and Jeffrey C. Kohles

Trust men and they will be true to you;

treat them greatly and they will show themselves great.

Ralph Waldo Emerson

He who does not trust enough, Will not be trusted.

Lao Tzu





5.1 Introduction


Numerous theorists have called for a reconceptualization of the traditional dichotomies between leaders and followers, managers and employees, supervisors and subordinates (e.g. Baker, 2007; Bligh, 2011; Kelley, 2008; Rost, 2008). In this chapter, we posit that trust is a dynamic yet critical link between these two interrelated organizational roles and processes. Prior research conceptualizes trust as an expectation or belief that one can rely on another person’s actions and words, and that that person has good intentions towards oneself. As Mayer et al. (1995) have noted, trust is most meaningful in situations in which one party is at risk or is vulnerable to another party. It is perhaps surprising then that many leadership studies fail to acknowledge the critical role of trust as the primary conduit or currency through which leaders and followers exchange power and influence. It is hard to imagine an organizational situation fraught with more risk and vulnerability than that between leader and follower, each of whom is vulnerable to deception, subterfuge, and even outright fraud by the other party. In this chapter, we provide a review of theoretical and empirical articles that highlight the importance of trust as a core cognitive and affective process in the dynamic leadership–followership relationship.

In our review, we build on Collinson’s (2005) call for leadership studies to explicitly incorporate “the multiple, shifting, contradictory and ambiguous identities of ‘leaders’ and ‘followers’” (p. 1436). Regardless of these labels, or perhaps more accurately in spite of them, both leaders and followers play a critical role in shaping collective responses to the most important organizational and societal problems of modern times. Followership has claimed a growing role in resolving many of the leadership challenges of the 21st century, and researchers and practitioners must tackle these challenges from both sides of the equation, emphasizing the evolving interpersonal processes that fundamentally define the leader–follower relationship.

In the following pages, we first review the literature on trust as it relates to both leadership and followership, exploring how followers work for leaders they either trust or mistrust, and how trust has been studied within these role-based distinctions. We first review previous work that explicitly addresses the role of trust in the leadership relationship, emphasizing that trust is a critical foundation for effective exchange-based and motivational leader–follower relationships. We then turn to empirical and theoretical work that explores the antecedents and consequences of trust in leader–follower relations, exploring what factors predict when trust is more or less likely to develop, as well as the differential outcomes that result from trusting dyads versus mistrustful dyads, where trust can act as an important buffer against negative workplace experiences. We subsequently explore relatively less-studied topics including when and why leaders trust followers, the dynamic transfer of trust between leaders and followers, and mistrust and trust repair. Finally, we conclude with the implications of this review for future research, as well as for organizations that seek to foster environments that are conducive to the development of trusting dyadic relationships.





5.2 The Foundational Role of Trust in Leader–Follower Relationships


Trust has always occupied a central and foundational role in the leader–follower ­relationship, and in this section we review the evidence for when and to what extent trust has been examined as a critical component of the leadership process (for comprehensive reviews of trust, see Lewicki et al., 2006; Li, 2007, 2008; Mayer et al. (1995); Rousseau et al. (1998); Schoorman et al., (2007); for meta-analyses, see Colquitt et al., 2007; Dirks & Ferrin, 2002). The study of trust development between leaders and followers dates back to Gabarro’s (1978) longitudinal qualitative study of how managers develop working relationships with subordinates. Over a 3-year time period, he identified two core foundations of leader–follower trust. The first was competence or ability, which included the knowledge and skills needed to do a job, along with the interpersonal skills and “general wisdom” needed to succeed. The second was character, which Mayer et al. (1995) subsequently split into two separate constructs: benevolence, or the extent to which a trustee is believed to want to do good for the truster, and integrity, or the degree to which a trustee is believed to adhere to sound moral and ethical principles.

From this early foundation, trust has subsequently been conceptualized as a core ­component of many if not most of the core leadership theories. However, the essence of these theories can still be tied to these two fundamental building blocks: how leaders establish that they have the competence to lead effectively, reflecting both task- and relationship-oriented skills, and how they establish their benevolence and integrity. Further, leaders have two primary mechanisms through which to establish these foundations. The exchange-based model asserts that supportive, participative, and empowering leadership behaviors send a message that the superior has confidence in, and concern and respect for, the subordinates, and these leadership behaviors foster higher levels of trust in the superior (Dirks & Ferrin, 2002). Other leadership theories highlight and provide support for the second, complementary motivational mechanism for the development of trust, which holds that more opportunities to participate in decision-making provide subordinates with greater intrinsic rewards from work and higher levels of psychological empowerment (Huang et al., 2010). The result is likely to be both greater levels of trust in the leader and improved work performance.

Trust forms a key foundation underlying core relationship-oriented leadership behaviors in the Ohio State University and University of Michigan studies, as consideration is characterized by mutual trust, respect and support for another person’s ideas, and appreciation of their feelings (Judge et al., 2004). Research dating back to the 1970s on the vertical dyad-linkage model has demonstrated that managers have different relationships with employees who are trusted compared with employees who are not trusted (Dansereau et al., 1975). In addition, leader–member exchange (LMX) research has demonstrated a relationship between LMX relationship quality and both identification-based trust and calculus-based trust (Scandura & Pellegrini, 2008). Other research suggests that the relationship between managerial trust and psychological experiences of empowerment is mediated by the quality of the LMX relationship between leader and follower (Gómez & Rosen, 2001). These findings highlight that a follower’s trusting relationship with his or her immediate leader is critical in predicting employee experiences, and that organizational efforts to redesign jobs and support empowerment initiatives may have limited utility where trust in leaders is absent.

The meaningful role of trust in transformational leadership has long been recognized both in its conceptualization (Bass, 1985) and in its measurement (i.e. the Multifactor Leadership Questionnaire, MLQ). Bass’s (1990) theoretical model of transformational leadership argued that this style of leadership is effective in part through its facilitation of follower trust. Other studies have similarly provided evidence that it is useful to distinguish between the behaviors of transformational or charismatic leaders and the level of trust that followers have in them in predicting follower outcomes (Kirkpatrick & Locke, 1996; Podsakoff et al., 1990; Shamir et al., 1998). Some empirical work suggests that the relationship (both direct and indirect) between transformational leadership and performance is mediated through both followers’ trust in the leader and value congruence (Jung & Avolio, 2000). Likewise, in a study of R&D teams, transformational and consultative leadership behaviors (specifically consulting team members when making decisions, communicating a collective vision, and sharing common values with the team) predicted 67% of the variance in team members’ trust towards leaders (Gillespie & Mann, 2004). These leadership behaviors signal that the leader is unlikely to breach trust, allowing followers to make themselves more vulnerable to the leader by disclosing sensitive information and relying on the leader’s judgments in ambiguous situations. Finally, leader behaviors using contingent-based reward and punishment have been shown to be more effective in engendering trust and citizenship than noncontingent leader behaviors (Rubin et al., 2010).

Other scholars have highlighted the role of trust in charismatic leadership processes. Choi (2006) presents a theoretical model of charismatic leadership that suggests empathy produces follower trust, emotional bonds with leaders, and identification with leaders. Seyranian & Bligh (2008) point out that use of inclusive language by leaders, stressing a sense of similarity, builds followers’ trust, which may help the leaders move followers’ social values towards change (see also Shamir, 2005).

Similarly, trust has been proposed as a key process in ethical, servant, and authentic leadership styles. This research highlights and builds upon the core foundation of trust as a leader who demonstrates integrity (for a theoretical model of leadership and integrity, see Palanski & Yammarino, 2009). Empirical research supports the critical role ­between followers’ perceptions of manager integrity and trust in the manager, which in turn influences follower attitudes and performance (Kaiser & Hogan, 2010). Many scholars have emphasized the critical relationship between servant leadership and follower trust. For example, Joseph & Winston (2005) examined the relationship between perceptions of servant leadership, leader trust, and organizational trust. Organizations that were perceived to be servant-led had followers who reported higher levels of both trust in direct leader and organizational-level trust. They argue that these findings support servant leadership as an important antecedent to both leader and organizational trust (see also Senjaya & Pekerti, 2010).

Walumbwa et al. (2011) argue that knowledge workers increasingly require an authentic leader whose values are aligned with the company’s mission in order to lead with transparency and trust. They emphasize that authentic leadership is fundamentally predicated on trust, which sustains a more candid process of dealing with difficult problems and leads to more effective functioning of knowledge workers. Stone & Cooper (2009) similarly highlight that to emerge as a credible leader an individual must first develop “credits” with potential followers before they will consent to be led in a new direction; trust may be a primary conduit through which these credits are built and maintained. Supporting this basic argument, Norman et al. (2010) found a relationship between leader transparency and positivity on the one hand and followers’ perceived trust and ratings of leader effectiveness on the other.

In the context of critically low levels of trust in leaders in the wake of the Enron and Worldcom debacles, Caldwell et al. (2010) propose that great leaders are “ethical stewards” who build trust by truly investing in and affirming the identities of those whom they serve. They argue that ethical stewardship is a morally superior governance model that generates increased employee commitment through a leader’s ability to align systems that build trust and ensure the welfare and growth of both followers and communities.

Overall, all of these leadership theories resonate with the core foundations of leader–follower trust: that leaders must be able to demonstrate their ability and competence to lead, and their integrity and benevolence towards those over whom they wield power. Recent leadership theories have focused a great deal of attention on integrity as a core foundation of leader–follower trust, arguably downplaying the role of task- and relationship-based behaviors in communicating a leader’s competence and benevolence. Lee et al. (2010) suggest that leadership-development efforts are overly focused on the capability of leaders in transformational, transactional, and empowering styles and roles, in the process neglecting the core emphasis on competence and expertise. They argue that, particularly in the context of developing knowledge workers, leadership scholars should pay additional attention to knowledge-building behaviors, such as skills in scanning the environment for new ideas, developing knowledge networks, sharing technical expertise, bringing in outside expertise, providing feedback, and overseeing the quality of work. Together, demonstrating competence in these skills engenders trust and knowledge-sharing, and leadership researchers should not neglect the role these competence-enhancing behaviors play in building leader–follower trust.

Burke et al. (2007) provide an integrative framework of the relationship between trust in leaders and both proximal and distal outcomes. They highlight that despite the fragmentation of research on leadership and trust, across the various perspectives there is a common recognition of: (1) the importance of truster and trustee characteristics; (2) behavioral, cognitive, and attitudinal predictors of trust; (3) situational/contextual factors that impact trust in leadership; and (4) the fact that trust in leadership results in behavioral and attitudinal outcomes. Their work highlights that leaders must demonstrate ability by setting a compelling direction, providing structure, and demonstrating task-relevant knowledge. In addition, leaders develop perceptions of benevolence through trans­formational, transactional, participative, and coaching behaviors that foster a ­supportive context. Finally, leaders develop and sustain perceptions of integrity through justice, value congruence, and accountability. Overall, this work provides a critical integrative framework for understanding how leader–follower trust is enhanced.





5.3 Development of Trust in Leader–Follower Relations: Antecedents


By far the most research attention on trust in leader–follower relationships focuses on its antecedents and consequences, which have been summarized in both Dirks & Ferrin’s (2002) meta-analysis of trust in leadership and 23 constructs, and in Burke et al.’s (2007) theoretical framework. Antecedents to the development of trust in leader–follower relations and their corresponding citations are listed in Table 5.1. In terms of proposed antecedents across studies, Dirk & Ferrin’s results indicate that transformational leadership has the strongest relationship with trust (r = .72), followed by perceived organizational support (POS) (r = .69). Next in magnitude, interactional justice and procedural justice have relationships of similar magnitude (r = .65 and .61), with transactional leadership and distributive justice having weaker relationships (r = .59 and .50). Participative decision-making also has a relatively strong relationship (r = .46), as does unmet expectations (r = −.40). Finally, propensity to trust has a small but significant relationship (r = .16); surprisingly, the length of the relationship is unrelated to trust.

Overall, Dirks & Ferrin (2002) suggest that leadership style and management practices are important antecedents of increasing trust in leadership, in terms of: justice, such as ensuring fair procedures, outcomes, and interactional processes; using participative decision-making; providing organizational support; ensuring expectations are fulfilled; and using transformational and transactional leadership styles. Transformational leadership, POS, and interactional justice have the largest relationships, followed by procedural justice, transactional leadership, distributive justice, participative decision-making, and unmet expectations. The authors note that the exact causal processes by which transformational leadership appears to increase follower trust remain unclear, and future research is necessary to identify the precise behavioral components responsible for the effect.

In addition, while trust in one’s leader has very high correlations with transformational leadership (r = .72) and satisfaction with one’s supervisor (r = .73), it is important to note that transformational leadership and trust may overlap in part because transformational leadership is measured using behavior-description items that are closely tied to trust (e.g. items in the Multifactor Leadership Scale (MLS) (Bass, 1985), such as “I am ready to trust in his/her capacity to overcome any obstacles”). The problem of item overlap is further compounded by the fact that followers are usually asked to complete assessments of both transformational leadership style and trust. Although the measures of trust and satisfaction with leaders are less likely to overlap, it is possible that when respondents report their attitudes about the leader, it is difficult for them to separate the two constructs (a halo effect). That is, they may be reporting their global assessment of the leader rather than reporting on two separate constructs. Consequently, these results likely overstate the true relationship between trust and these two variables.

Table 5.1 Trust antecedents.

Theme Key findings Reference

Characteristics Leaders and followers with higher propensity to trust more likely to develop positive exchange relationships Bernerth & Walker (2009)

Leader behaviors Transformational leadership Dirks & Ferrin (2002)

Quality of treatment by managers

Quality of managerial decision-making

Shared social bonds

Understandable actions by management

Trustworthiness Bijlsma & Koopman (2003)

Monitoring performance

Providing guidance to improve individual performance

Openness to followers’ ideas Bijlsma & van de Bunt (2003)

Conflict-management style of manager Chan Huang & Ng (2008)

Providing support in case of trouble with others

Consideration for employees’ needs and interests

Protecting employees’ rights Ertürk (2010); Fairholm & Fairholm (2000); Moye & Henkin (2006)

Behaviors denoting benevolence toward followers Lapierre (2007)

Perceived authenticity Gardner et al. (2009)

Ethics Perceptions of ethical leader behavior relate positively to trust Den Hartog & De Hoogh (2009)

Relationship between ethical organizational climate and turnover intentions is mediated by trust and other factors Mulki et al. (2008)

Perception of an ethical climate increases trust in leader Salamon & Robinson (2008)

Justice Interactional justice predicts trust in one’s direct leader DeConinck (2010); Stinglhamber et al. (2006); Zhang et al. (2008)

Distributive justice is related to organizational trust DeConinck (2010)

Procedural justice affects cognitive and affect-based trust De Cremer et al. (2006)

Procedural justice mediates the relationship between employee development and trust in leaders Tzafrir et al. (2004)

Perception of overall fairness defines trust in less-certain trust assessments Jones & Martens (2009)

Organizational politics High levels of organizational politics erode trust Poon (2006)

Relationship between organizational politics and job outcomes is moderated by trust Vigoda-Gadot & Talmud (2010)

Perceived organizational support Perceived organizational support has a strong relationship to trust

Unmet expectations impact trust relationship Dirks & Ferrin (2002)

Other research supports the basic argument that to gain the benefits of a trusting work environment, managers should demonstrate behaviors that promote trust, such as consistency, integrity, concern, and benevolence, by showing consideration for employees’ needs and interests and by protecting their rights (Ertürk, 2010; Fairholm & Fairholm, 2000; Moye & Henkin, 2006). In a special volume devoted to trust in organizations, Bijlsma & Koopman (2003) highlight that shared social bonds, quality of treatment by management, understandable actions by management, quality of managerial decision-making, and perceived trustworthiness are all antecedents of trust in managers (Connell et al., 2003; Costa, 2003; Tyler, 2003). Gardner et al. (2009) further posit that the perceived authenticity of the leader impacts the favorability of followers’ impressions and subsequent trust in the leader, and that leaders communicate their authenticity through both deep acting and genuine displays of emotions. However, these propositions have yet to be empirically tested, and the important role of both leader and follower emotional displays is an interesting and important area for future research on antecedents of trust.

Lapierre (2007) examined the separate and joint effects of supervisor behaviors ­denoting trustworthiness on subordinate willingness to help the leader with extra-role workplace contributions. In a lab experiment, supervisory behaviors denoting benevolence towards the participant had the strongest positive impact on their willingness to benefit the ­supervisor, likely due to the norm of reciprocity described by social-exchange theory (Blau, 1964). In addition, leader benevolence towards the subordinate’s peers also had a significant positive effect on that subordinat’s expressed willingness to benefit the supervisor. This finding is consistent with social information-processing theory (Salancik & Pfeffer, 1978), which posits that individuals observe how others are treated and amend their attitudes, intentions, and behaviors accordingly. Together, these findings suggest that both social-exchange theory and social information-processing theory are relevant in understanding the processes through which leader–follower trust develops.

Bijlsma & van de Bunt (2003) set out to identify a parsimonious set of leadership ­behaviors that serve as cues for how much followers should trust their direct leaders. In a case study of a Dutch hospital with 1800 employees, Bijlsma & van de Bunt (2003) collected both survey and interview data. Their results suggest that monitoring performance, providing guidance to improve individual performance, providing support in case of ­trouble with others, demonstrating openness to the ideas of followers, and utilizing cooperation-related problem-solving are relevant trust-related behaviors of managers. Also of note, a leader’s appreciation of a job well done was not significantly related to trust in them in this study.

Other subsequent work has continued to focus on the role of perceived justice in fostering both organizational trust and trust in one’s direct leader. DeConinck’s (2010) recent study, for example, included POS, perceived supervisory support (PSS), the three components of organizational justice (distributive, procedural, and interactional), and both organizational trust and supervisory trust in a single model. In addition, DeConinck used one dataset to test the hypothesized relationships and a second data set to confirm the results from the first study. His results suggested that the relationship between procedural justice and organization trust was mediated by POS. Interactional justice, in contrast, predicted trust in one’s direct leader both directly and indirectly through PSS (see also Stinglhamber et al., 2006; Zhang et al., 2008). Finally, distributive justice was related both directly and indirectly to organizational trust through PSS. While these findings suggest that all three aspects of justice are linked to trust, interactional justice was the most predictive of trust in the direct leader. Notably, in this study interactional justice assessed followers’ perceptions that they were receiving fair and interpersonal treatment from their leader, likely tapping into the benevolence and integrity dimensions of trust. Other findings suggest that employees are particularly likely to use perceptions of overall fairness as decision ­heuristics for determining whether to trust organizational authorities when they are less certain about their assessments of trust (Jones & Martens, 2009), indicating that justice perceptions may be particularly critical when employees are not sure whether or not to place trust in their leaders.

Although organizational practices such as interactional justice, procedural justice, and participative decision-making were related to trust in both direct and organizational leaders, they had stronger relationships with trust in the direct leader. De Cremer et al. (2006) similarly found that direct leaders enacting procedural justice positively affected organizational identification and both affective and cognitive trust in a sample of 257 Dutch human-resources managers. Further, followers’ affect-based trust mediated the relationship between procedural justice and organizational identification, and procedural justice mediated the impact of employee development and trust in managers (Tzafrir et al., 2004). In contrast, Dirks & Ferrin (2002) found that POS was more strongly related to trust in organizational leadership than to trust in one’s direct leader, suggesting that dyadic and organizational-level outcome variables will be differentially related depending on whether trust in a direct leader versus organizational leadership is assessed.

Interestingly, Dirks & Ferrin (2002) found no relationship between trust in leadership and the length of the relationship between leaders and followers, and found only a weak relationship between trust in leaders and followers’ propensity to trust. These findings are highly significant for managers who seek to develop trusting relationships with their followers, as they suggest that although followers vary in their dispositional propensity to trust, these dispositional differences explain little of the variance in followers’ trust in their leaders. In addition, it is important to point out that while managers may often assume that the length of their relationship with their followers is associated with the followers’ willingness to trust them, in actuality trust can be much more spontaneous, dynamic, and fluid. Therefore, managers should not assume that time will automatically lead to more trusting relationships, nor can they assume that followers with whom they have longer-term relationships are automatically more trustworthy than newer followers.

In contrast, however, Bernerth & Walker’s (2009) study of 195 matched employee–supervisor pairs across industries found that the highest-quality relationships, as defined by quality of social exchanges, were positively affected by individuals who are prone to trust one another. Specifically, their results suggest that leader and follower propensity to trust interact, such that the most positive exchange relationships are perceived to exist when both managers and employees are high in propensity to trust. Given that social exchanges inherently involve a certain amount of vulnerability, in that the other party’s behavior is not under one’s control, the results reported here suggest that those who are more dispositionally willing to trust others to reciprocate form the best relationships.

Finally, it is interesting to note that in a study of 126 Chinese followers, Chan et al. (2008) found that perceptions of a manager’s conflict-management style were a significant antecedent of trust, and that trust mediates the relationship between an integrating conflict-management style (characterized as both cooperative and demonstrating a concern for others) and positive attitudinal outcomes in followers. This study suggests that ­conflict-management style may also be a fruitful area for future research into when ­followers are more likely to trust their leaders.





5.3.1 Organizational-level variables: ethics and politics


In addition to the constructs already discussed, it is important to highlight that followers do not develop trust in their leaders solely on the basis of interpersonal processes. DeConinck’s (2011) findings in a sales environment suggests that followers’ perceptions of an ethical work climate are related directly to supervisory trust, suggesting that organizational-level factors can “bleed into” perceptions of a leader’s trustworthiness. Perceptions of high levels of organizational politics can erode the relationship between trust in supervisors and employee willingness to help coworkers (Poon, 2006). Vigoda-Gadot & Talmud’s (2010) work suggests a relationship between perceived organizational politics and job outcomes including job satisfaction, organizational commitment, stress, and burnout; importantly, this relationship is moderated by trust and social support.

As expected, Den Hartog & De Hoogh’s (2009) study of 503 employees in 79 work groups found that perceived ethical leader behavior was positively related to trust (Den Hartog & De Hoogh, 2009). Mulki et al. (2008) found that the relationship between ethical climate and turnover intention is fully mediated by role stress, interpersonal conflict, emotional exhaustion, trust in one’s supervisor, and job satisfaction. In addition, perceptions of an ethical climate or collectively-felt trust (Salamon & Robinson, 2008) increase trust in one’s supervisor, which in turn reduces interpersonal conflict and emotional exhaustion. Together, these findings highlight the detrimental role that unethical work environments and highly-politicized organizations can have on developing trusting relationships between leaders and followers, and suggest that the organizational context in which leaders and followers interact is critical to understanding the ­antecedents of trust.





5.4 Trust in Leader–Follower Relations: Consequences


Arguably the most robust and well-researched aspect of leadership and trust involves outcomes of trusting relationships on followers and organizations, which are summarized in Table 5.2. Dirks & Ferrin’s meta-analysis (2002) indicates that trust in leadership is significantly related to attitudinal, behavioral, and performance outcomes. For work behaviors and outcomes, trust is related to each of the types of organizational citizenship behavior: altruism (r = .19), civic virtue (r = .11), conscientiousness (r = .22), courtesy (r = .22), and sportsmanship (r = .20). Trust has a relatively weak but significant relationship with job performance as well (r = .16). Trust in leadership demonstrates a substantial relationship with attitudinal variables and had the strongest relationships with job satisfaction (r = .51) and organizational commitment (r = .49). Across studies, trust also has sizable relationships with turnover intentions (r = .40), belief in information provided by the leader (r = .35), and commitment to decisions (r = .24). Not surprisingly, trust is also highly related to satisfaction with leader (r =.73) and LMX (r = .69). Dirks & Ferrin (2002) highlight that further research is necessary to determine the direction of causality, as well as mediators and moderators of these relationships.

In terms of outcomes of trust, Dirks & Ferrin’s (2002) findings also highlight the importance of taking the level of analysis into consideration. They found that trust in a direct leader has an equal or greater effect on performance, altruism, intent to quit, and job satisfaction, than does trust in organizational leadership. However, trust in organizational leadership has a greater impact on organizational-level outcomes such as ­organizational commitment. These findings suggest that followers can and do develop different trusting relationships with their immediate leaders versus leaders higher up in the organizational hierarchy, and in turn those varying relationships have different effects on follower outcome variables. Huang et al. (2009) point out that while employees occupying higher-level positions such as managerial positions tend to attach more value to a sense of control and autonomy, lower-level employees such as clerical staff and frontline employees tend to place more emphasis on the quality of relationships with colleagues and supervisors as well as the extent to which their superiors are trustworthy.

Table 5.2 Trust outcomes.

Theme Key findings References

Attitudinal outcomes Trust in supervisor strengthens both affective commitment and organizational identification Costigan et al. (2006); Ertürk (2010); Straiter (2005)

Trust has a significant relationship to job satisfaction and organizational commitment Dirks & Ferrin (2002)

Behavioral outcomes Follower trust in the leader and identification with the collective both play an important role in translating a leader’s self-sacrifice into follower cooperation De Cremer & van Knippenberg (2005)

Trust is significantly related to altruism, civic virtue, conscientiousness, courtesy, and sportsmanship Dirks & Ferrin (2002)

Trust enhances employee role enlargement and organizational citizenship behaviors Chiaburu & Marinova (2006)

Performance outcomes Trust has a relatively weak but significant relationship with job performance (r = .16) Dirks & Ferrin (2002)

Trust in a direct leader leads to increased ability to focus on work tasks Frazier et al. (2010)

Organizational trust allows employees to focus and add value to the organization Mayer & Gavin (2005)

Other studies have subsequently supported the finding that both trust in one’s direct leader and organization-directed trust are positively related to employees’ role-­enlargement and organizational citizenship behaviors. In a survey of 186 line and administrative employees, Chiaburu & Marinova (2006) found that increasing levels of trust in the direct leader and the organization are both important for role enlargement. They advise training managers to increase their trust-related awareness and behaviors, as well as paying attention to organizational fairness-related modifications. These might include setting, implementing, and monitoring distributive (e.g. salary and reward ­allocation) and procedural (overall organizational procedures) policies.

Frazier et al.’s (2010) findings also highlight the importance of the trust referent: they indicate that trust in a proximal referent (a direct leader) leads to an increased ability to focus on work-related tasks, whereas trust in a distal referent does not influence the ability to focus. Trust in management allows employees to focus on the tasks that need to be carried out to add value to their organization. The results of this study indicate that trust in two levels of management is related to employees’ ability to focus attention on value-producing activities, and that this ability to focus is subsequently related to a multifaceted treatment of performance (Mayer & Gavin, 2005).

Trust in one’s supervisor is also strongly and positively associated with organizational identification, and a number of studies confirm that it is an important component in strengthening both affective commitment and organizational identification (Costigan et al., 2006; Ertürk, 2010; Straiter, 2005). However, Ertürk’s (2010) study suggests a potentially important difference between affect- and cognitive-based trust in one’s leader. This survey of blue-collar shipping employees in Turkey found that perceived competence and perceived control are positively related to organizational identification, but particularly so when cognition-based trust in a supervisor is high. The cognition-based trust of an employee in his/her supervisor is based on rational reasons, such as the supervisor’s past record of competence, responsibility, and trustworthy behaviors. On the other hand, ­affect-based trust is more emotional, and reflects care and concern for each party in the relationship. Ertürk found that affect-based trust in a supervisor moderated the relationship between goal internalization and organizational identification, and between POS and organizational identification. Hence, goal internalization and POS are positively related to organizational identification more strongly among employees who have higher affect-based trust in their supervisor.

Using both a public-good experiment and a cross-sectional survey in a German multinational company, De Cremer & van Knippenberg (2005) found that follower trust in the leader and identification with the collective both play an important role in translating a leader’s self-sacrifice into follower cooperation. Stated differently, the relationship ­between leader self-sacrifice and follower cooperation (measured by contributions in a public-good dilemma and organizational citizenship behaviors) is mediated by perceptions of trust in the leader and feelings of collective identification. This study is unique in that it involved both experimental and survey data, and it supports the notion that self-sacrifice for the collective may be an important aspect of leadership that moves followers beyond their own self-interests, but only when they trust their leader.





5.5 Trust As A Buffer: Mediation and Moderation of Trust Between Leadership and Follower Outcomes


Trust has long been proposed to mediate the effectiveness of leader behavior (Pillai & Meindl, 1998; Pillai et al., 1999; Podsakoff et al., 1990), and has frequently been posited to have a potential buffering effect. Bal et al. (2011) investigated the roles of age and trust in perceived procedural justice and employee turnover in a three-wave longitudinal survey among 1597 Dutch employees. Their results demonstrate that prior trust in one’s leader modifies the relation between procedural justice and turnover: specifically, the combination of high procedural justice and high trust in the leader diminishes the likelihood of employee turnover. This study highlights that followers with both high procedural justice and high trust in their leader are more willing to stay with their organization, and that this effect is strongest among older workers with high trust. Bal et al. (2011) conclude that, particularly for older workers, trust in the leader becomes essential in evaluations of procedural justice in determining whether or not to stay with the organization, noting that “theoretically, high trust could act as a buffer for older workers against negative effects of justice violations and contract breaches since trust in the leader reduces the impact of stressful situations resulting from injustice” (p. 79).

Rubin et al. (2010) found that the relationship between operant leadership and organizational citizenship behaviors is fully mediated by trust. Other research suggests that the relationship between transformational leadership and the in-role performance of followers is mediated by empowerment and trust in the leader (Bartram & Casimir, 2007). In this study of 109 leader–follower dyads in an Australian insurance company call center, Bartram & Casimir found that in order to improve both in-role performance and satisfaction with the leader, followers need to be empowered and to trust their leaders. However, while greater perceptions of follower empowerment lead to improved performance, they are not associated with higher job satisfaction. In contrast, follower trust in their leader is associated with greater job satisfaction but not performance. Finally, it is important to note that the authors conclude that leaders can facilitate the development of perceptions of trustworthiness through competence, fair treatment of their followers, and being ­genuinely concerned about the best interests of their followers, particularly in the highly-controlled, standardized, and formalized work setting endemic in the context of a ­call-center environment. There is also evidence that trust in management mediates the relationship between followers’ psychological capital (PsyCap) and performance, and partially mediates the relationship between followers’ perceptions of authentic leadership and performance (see Clark & Payne, 2006). Finally, the relationship between transformational leadership and job satisfaction is partially mediated by employees’ trust in their leader (Liu et al., 2010).

Also relevant are Holtz & Harold’s (2008) findings of follower responses “when the boss says ‘no.’” They examined the relationship between leadership style, trust, employee interpretations of managerial explanations, and justice perceptions using a critical-incident methodology. Their findings showed followers who felt their manager was transformational reported a higher degree of trust and more favorable reactions to managerial explanations. These results have been extrapolated to organizational change as well. Trust in senior leaders may also enhance employee readiness for corporate transformation changes (­Rafferty & Simons, 2006). Findings from 194 employees working in R&D teams at a multinational automotive company indicated that charismatic leadership and trust in top management were both positively related to innovation-implementation behaviors (­Michaelis et al., 2009).

Interestingly, some research has found an interaction effect between trust in one’s supervisor and perceptions of control over change processes, such that higher trust increases followers’ organizational commitment when perceived control over change is low (Neves & Caetano, 2006). In addition, this study found that the relationship between interpersonal justice, perceived supervisor support, and affective organizational commitment was fully mediated by employees’ trust in their supervisor.

Ferrin & Dirks (2003) report that the relationship between reward structures and trust is complex and varied, and mediated by causal schemas, suspicion effects, and self-­perception. They state that the impact of mixed reward structures on trust is biased by individuals’ preexisting expectations about their partners’ trustworthiness, suggesting that even followers’ interpretations of the meaning of rewards and how they are applied are strongly impacted by whether or not they trust their leader.





5.6 Leaders Trusting Followers


As is true of other aspects of leader–follower relations, much greater attention has been paid to the importance of followers’ trust in leaders than the reverse: to what extent leaders trust followers. This is perhaps the most notable and glaring shortcoming in the leadership and trust research. A notable exception is Hakimi et al.’s (2010) work across two studies of the relationship between leaders’ trust in follower performance and integrity on the one hand and leader-empowering behaviors on the other. Their results show that leader-empowering behavior depends on the trust leaders have in follower’s performance and integrity, and that this relationship is moderated by leader conscientiousness. They look at leader trust as an antecedent of leader-empowering behavior, instead of as a consequence, and demonstrate its importance in the empowerment process. Their findings are important to the study of leader–follower relationships more generally.

Another notable exception is Brower et al. (2009), who also demonstrate that effective leaders need to not only gain the trust of their followers but also learn to trust their followers. Specifically, they demonstrate that trusting leaders develop employees who are more productive, who offer and provide help beyond the requirements of their jobs, and who stay with an organization for longer periods of time. However, Brower et al. (2009) also point out that organizational systems often protect managers from subordinates who are not trusted, thus limiting those subordinates’ opportunities to demonstrate their trustworthiness. Therefore, leaders may benefit from extending trust to followers even before they have gained enough experience with them to assess their trustworthiness. In essence, this involves signaling to employees that the leader is willing to take risks and display vulnerability despite the potential for negative outcomes.

Brower et al. (2009) note that an additional benefit may be that managers who learn to trust and act on that trust enhance their own perceived trustworthiness. That is, as Whitener and colleagues (1998) argue, gaining the trust of subordinates may involve first acting as a trusting manager. Other findings suggest that employees also tend to place more trust in fellow coworkers who are trusted by team leaders (Lau & Liden, 2008), especially when the group’s performance is poor. This line of reasoning suggests that organizations need to take steps to enhance the willingness of managers to act in a trusting manner, such as by sharing sensitive information and empowering employees (Cummings, 1983; ­Deluga, 1994; Whitener, 1997).

Also relevant to the discussion of how leaders develop trust in followers are findings that status differences between leaders and followers influence conditions of trust. Specifically, Werbel & Henriques (2009) found that supervisors are more concerned about conditions of trust that deal with delegation, and reported that receptivity, availability, and discreteness were perceived to be more important in building leader trust in the follower and a quality LMX relationship. Followers, on the other hand, reported that availability, competence, discreteness, integrity, and openness were more important for follower trust in the leader. Further, followers are more concerned about those conditions of trust based on interactional justice. These findings suggest that differences in these foundational conditions of trust may create conflicting expectations about how to effectively build trust (Werbel & Henriques, 2009).





5.7 Trust in Dynamic Leader–Follower Processes:the Transfer of Trust


Also notably absent from the research on leader–follower trust is attention to the development of trust as a dynamic and evolving process. Ferrin et al. (2007) present evidence that trust perceptions play a crucial mediating role in the development of cooperation in both interpersonal and intergroup interactions. Overall, it does “take two to tango”: the development of mutual trust and cooperation involves an intricate dance that spirals over time and is fundamentally affected by the partners’ initial moves. Chughtai & Buckley (2008) posit that the relationship between trust and work engagement is mutually reinforcing and leads to an upward-spiral effect. That is, high levels of state- and trait-based trust boost work engagement, which in turn augments both forms of trust.

Atwater (1988) found that the most important predictors of perceived supportive leadership behaviors, such as resolving conflicts, supporting opportunities for follower development, and inspiring loyalty, were the levels of trust and loyalty towards the leader. In other words, the more trust and loyalty followers expressed towards their leader, the more positively the leader was perceived to behave. She argues that trusting leader–follower relationships are likely circular: if initial trust on the part of followers is met with supportive behaviors on the part of leaders, trust is likely to develop and grow (see also McKnight et al., 1998). Ferrin et al. (2007) similarly show in a comparative test of trust and cooperation spiral models that the earliest stages of a relationship are crucial for determining the quality of the future relationship. It is also noteworthy that trust and loyalty are more predictive of perceived supportive leader behaviors than the leader’s personality and job characteristics, suggesting that the development of trust can possibly mitigate task demands and personality differences between leader and follower. Bernereth & Walker’s (2007) findings are also relevant here. They report an interaction between managerial and employee propensity to trust, such that the most positive exchange relationships are perceived to exist when both managers and employees are high in propensity to trust.

Recent research suggests that the factors that influence what we find trustworthy in leaders and followers change as the relationship develops. Levin et al. (2006) assert that as trusters learn more about others, they base their trust on different kinds of information. From this perspective, Dirks & Ferrin’s (2002) earlier findings that leader–follower relationship length is not associated with greater levels of trust are not surprising; rather, trust should be affected by the interaction of relationship length and bases of trust. The results of Levin et al.’s (2006) survey of supervisors and subordinates support this prediction. Specifically, in newer leader–follower relationships, trust is associated with demographic similarity (i.e. same gender in this study); in intermediate relationships, with observations of trustworthy behavior; and in mature relationships, with shared perspective (Levin et al., 2006). These results indicate that the length of a relationship is critical to understanding antecedents of leader–follower trust, and that additional research is needed into how these relationships unfold over time.





5.8 Mistrust and Lack of Trust in Leader– Follower Relationships


Finally, it is somewhat disconcerting that very little research focuses on “the dark side of trust” and its consequences. For example, how far are followers willing to go in terms of unethical or unhealthy behaviors to please leaders whom they trust? Even more surprising is the lack of research that specifically addresses how breaches of trust can be repaired ­between leaders and followers. Mayer’s (2007) chapter reviews factors affecting trust in leaders, and highlights referents of trust, sources of risk, and past behavioral performance as factors influencing employees’ trust in management. In addition, Mayer examines how the past and anticipated future length of a relationship affect trust and the employment relationship, pointing to the potential role of catharsis in rebuilding broken trust and trust repair (for comprehensive treatments of trust repair, see Dirks & De Cremer, 2011; Kim et al. 2004, 2009; Tomlinson & Mayer, 2009; for a meta-analysis of the effects of psychological contract breach on trust, see Zhao et al., 2007). However, there is great need for empirical research into and application of these theories in the realm of leader–follower relationships specifically.

Another important variable for both leaders and followers in developing trusting relationships concerns the issue of monitoring. There are a number of contradictory findings which suggest that monitoring by supervisors can be both negatively and positively related to trust in leaders (e.g. Bijlsma & Van de Bunt, 2003; Ferrin et al., 2007). ­Bijlsma-Frankema et al. (2008) point out that these findings may be contingent upon the nature of the teams studied, where initially or in newer work groups monitoring may be interpreted as providing the footing followers need to make progress in goal attainment. They note that this poses a challenge for organizations to help leaders learn how to monitor employees without signaling distrust, but rather signaling benevolence. Previous research has shown that monitoring, when combined with fair assessment of performance, leader support, openness, and collaborative problem-­solving, is highly related to trust in managers (­Bijlsma & Van de Bunt, 2003). Thus, an important implication for managers is to combine careful monitoring with supportive leadership factors in order to facilitate greater levels of employee trust, rather than undermining it.

Mutually-beneficial cooperative relationships can also take place without trust, through alternative mechanisms such as reputation, enforcement of contracts, compensation schemes, social capital networks, and regulation of behavior through professional societies (Cook et al., 2005). Thus, it is important not to overemphasize the role of trust in bringing about cooperative leader–follower relationships, which can be mutually beneficial to both parties in the complete absence of trust. Further, in some organizational situations it may be less the person in the role who is trusted (or not), and more the system of expertise that produces and maintains role-appropriate behavior in role occupants (Kramer, 1999). Following Dawes (1994), “We trust engineers because we trust engineering and believe that engineers are trained to apply valid principles of engineering, moreover, we have evidence every day that these principles are valid when we observe airplanes flying” (p. 24). As applied to leaders and followers, the individuals within roles may sometimes be less important than our overall trust or mistrust of the organizational role that they occupy. For example, Mulder et al. (2009) found that the relationship between sanctions and follower behavior depends on both the trustworthiness of the leader and the general trust that people have in authorities. This study also revealed that when there are options to evade the sanction, people with low levels of general trust in authorities comply less with an untrustworthy leader than with a trustworthy leader (Mulder et al., 2009).

Empirically, Ferrin et al.’s (2007) interpersonal study found that trust perceptions and cooperation exhibited a strong upward trend, facilitating one another after each successive iteration. While this may apparently contradict Kelley & Stahelski’s (1970) finding that social dilemmas tend to degrade, one critical distinction may be the role of ­communication or of other opportunities to signal cooperative behavior. Through bidirectional leader–follower communication, parties are able to obtain a better understanding of dilemmas and challenges they face, gain opportunities to explain and possibly reframe their behaviors, and obtain insights into their partner’s behaviors. Finally, both the leader and the follower then have the opportunity to make commitments about their behaviors and solicit commitments or promises about the other’s behavior, and can jointly plan to coordinate their actions in the future so that they begin to cooperate simultaneously or in an exchange relationship. All of these factors should serve to enhance and promote cooperation and solidify initial levels of trust (Ferrin et al., 2007).

In a content analysis of 988 critical incidents collected from 733 cadets in officer training courses, Lapidot et al. (2007) found a relationship between behaviors reflecting leader benevolence and trust-building incidents. Specifically, behaviors reflecting leader ability and integrity were more salient in trust-erosion incidents, and behaviors reflecting leader benevolence were more salient in trust-building incidents. Greater subordinate vulnerability increased the importance of behaviors reflecting leader integrity or ability, and vulnerability increased the likelihood that trust would be eroded. Also relevant here are Keyton & Smith’s (2009) findings using coded discourse among employees, which indicate that distrust is a unique psychological construct rather than the opposite of trust. These findings suggest that the processes involved in leader–follower trust-building may be distinct from those involved in the erosion of trust, and that distinctions should be made between lower levels of trust and outright mistrust in both leaders and followers.





5.9 Future Research Directions


In outlining directions for future research, we echo Bijlsma & Koopman’s (2003) advice that much can be gained by systematic comparison of leader–follower trust across contexts of more- and less-stable work situations, virtual and face-to-face relations, temporary and stable leader–follower relationships, and local and global organizational forms. In addition we would add cross-cultural work and the impact of trust on followership, each of which we discuss briefly in this section.





5.9.1 Cross-cultural implications


Research findings around cross-cultural interactions and the extent to which leader–­follower trust is culturally contingent are beginning to emerge. In a cross-national study of Canadian and Japanese students, Branzei et al. (2007) offer a culturally-contingent model of how trust is formed in cross-cultural encounters. Their results show that trusters are more likely to rely on culture-consistent signs and tend to neglect inconsistent ones when assessing the trustworthiness of an unfamiliar partner. More specifically, collectivists are more responsive to situational signs and unresponsive to dispositional signs in their initial assessments of trustworthiness, while the opposite is true for individualists. In addition, their results show that differential attention to dispositional and contextual signs evokes distinct types of trustworthiness beliefs, which are likely to impact the development of trusting leader–follower relationships across varying cultural contexts. In another example, a cross-cultural comparison between Australian and Chinese followers showed that Australian followers reported higher levels of trust in their leaders than did Chinese followers, and culture moderated the mediation effects of trust on the leadership–performance relationship (Casimir et al., 2006). A four-country comparative study of the USA, Turkey, Poland, and Russia found that both followers’ affect-based and their ­cognition-based trust in their leader had a significant, but relatively modest, effect on the followers’ creativity and risk-taking behaviors (as rated by the leader) (Costigan et al., 2006). Interestingly, the cross-cultural variables of power distance and individualism–­collectivism did not significantly moderate this finding across the four countries. Finally, Huang & Van De Vliert (2006) reported a negative relationship between job formalization and trust in management in individualistic countries; this relationship was mediated by less-open employee–management communication. However, no strong link is found between these variables in collectivist countries (see also Jung et al., 2009). These research findings provide a useful foundation for understanding baseline differences in trust-­relevant factors across cultures, as well as for developing culturally-contingent models for helping both leaders and ­followers develop and maintain trusting relationships across cultural boundaries.





5.9.2 Followership and trust


Given the dearth of research on how leaders develop and maintain trust in followers, it is critical for future research to examine how trust interacts with the followership role. For example, researchers could explore whether or not active and courageous followership requires a foundation of trust, and what role trust plays in challenging leaders, “voice” behaviors, and whistle-blowing. In addition, relevant to the last section, research is necessary to examine potential cultural barriers (e.g. power distance, collectivism, uncertainty avoidance) that inhibit trust and voice and discourage versus encourage followers to question authority. It would also be useful to explore how leaders and followers can be encouraged to see that giving followers the “voice” to speak freely is not just in the ­communal interest, but in the leader’s and organization’s interests as well. Other important questions include the potential role of social contagion in the spread of trust between leaders and followers, the role of a “culture of trust” in suppressing or fostering a climate for effective followership, and perhaps most importantly, how organizations can foster the trust necessary for constructive dialogue as a mechanism to self-correct internally before a dangerous situation occurs.





5.10 Conclusion


Numerous scholars have emphasized the critical role that trust plays in leadership. Bennis (1999) highlighted trustworthiness as a key attribute of an effective leader, and Martin (1999) argues that trust is at the root of all “great leadership,” saying that leadership and trust have a unique relationship in that one means little without the other (see also Hart, 1988). McEvily et al. (2003) propose that conceptualizing trust as an organizing principle is a powerful way of integrating the diverse trust literature and distilling generalizable implications for how trust affects organizing, potentially connecting the psychological and sociological microfoundations of trust with the macrobases of organizing (see also Kramer & Tyler, 1996).

In the increasingly global organizations focused on knowledge work, creativity, and complex problem-solving, leaders who view followers as commodities or means to an end forfeit the strategic competitive advantage that leadership offers when it creates “a culture of love, forgiveness, and trust … that unlocks and empowers the untapped capabilities, overcomes the withheld commitment, and dissipates the reluctant distrust so prevalent in other leadership models that lack an authentic interest in the welfare of employees and other stakeholders” (Caldwell, 2010, p. 98). Leaders who are distant and aloof from employees and avoid connecting with them are becoming much less acceptable and far less normative, further enhancing the importance of trust. As Ernest Hemingway noted, “the best way to find out if you can trust somebody is to trust them.” This potentially precarious first step provides the core foundation for the leadership relationship, and we hope that future research will continue to explore what encourages leaders and followers to both take the risk and ultimately reap the rewards.





Acknowledgements


The authors would like to thank Angela Mouton and Cynthia Sherman for their assistance in compiling this chapter.





References


Atwater, L.E. (1988). The relative importance of situational and individual variables in predicting leader behavior: the surprising impact of subordinate trust. Group & Organization Studies, 13(3), 290–310. doi:10.1177/105960118801300304.

Baker, S.D. (2007). Followership: the theoretical foundation of a contemporary construct. Journal of Leadership & Organizational Studies, 14, 50–60. doi: 10.1177/0002831207304343.

Bal, P., de Lange, A.H., Ybema, J.F., Jansen, P.W., & van der Velde, M.G. (2011). Age and trust as moderators in the relation between procedural justice and turnover: a large-scale longitudinal study. Applied Psychology: An International Review, 60(1), 66–86. doi:10.1111/j.1464-0597.2010.00427.x.

Bartram, T. & Casimir, G. (2007). The relationship between leadership and follower in-role performance and satisfaction with the leader: the mediating effects of empowerment and trust in the leader. Leadership & Organization Development Journal, 28(1), 4–19. doi:10.1108/01437730710718218.

Bass, B.M. (1990). From transactional to transformational leadership: learning to share the vision. Organizational Dynamics, 18(3), 19–31.

Bennis, W. (1999). The end of leadership: exemplary leadership is impossible without full inclusion, initiatives, and cooperation of followers. Organizational Dynamics, 71–79.

Bernerth, J.B. & Walker, H. (2009). Propensity to trust and the impact on social exchange: an empirical investigation. Journal of Leadership & Organizational Studies, 15(3), 217–226. doi:10.1177/1548051808326594.

Bijlsma, K.M. & Koopman, P. (2003). Introduction: trust within organisations. Personnel Review, 32, 543–555.

Bijlsma, K.M. & van de Bunt, G.G. (2003). Antecedents of trust in managers: a “bottom up” approach. Personnel Review, 32(5), 638–664. doi:10.1108/00483480310488388.

Bijlsma-Frankema, K.K., de Jong, B., & van de Bunt, G. (2008). Heed, a missing link between trust, monitoring and performance in knowledge intensive teams. The International Journal of Human Resource Management, 19(1), 19–40.

Bligh, M.C. (2011). Followership and follower-centred approaches. In Bryman, A., Grint, K., Jackson, B., Uhl-Bien, M., & Collinson, D., editors. Sage Handbook of Leadership. London: Sage. pp. 1180–1216.

Branzei, O., Vertinsky, I., & Camp, R. (2007). Culture-contingent signs of trust in emergent ­relationships. Organizational Behavior and Human Decision Processes, 104(1), 61–82. doi:10.1016/j.obhdp.2006.11.002.

Brower, H.H., Lester, S.W., Korsgaard, M., & Dineen, B.R. (2009). A closer look at trust ­between managers and subordinates: Understanding the effects of both trusting and being trusted on subordinate outcomes. Journal of Management, 35(2), 327–347. doi:10.1177/0149206307312511.

Burke, C., Sims, D.E., Lazzara, E.H., & Salas, E. (2007). Trust in leadership: a multi-level review and integration. The Leadership Quarterly, 18(6), 606–632. doi:10.1016/j.leaqua.2007.09.006.

Caldwell, C., Hayes, L.A., & Long, D. (2010). Leadership, trustworthiness, and ethical stewardship. Journal of Business Ethics, 96(4), 497–512. doi:10.1007/s10551-010-0489-y.

Casimir, G., Waldman, D.A., Bartran, T., & Yang, S. (2006). Trust and the relationship between leadership and follower performance: opening the black box in Australia and China. Journal of Leadership & Organizational Studies, 12(3), 68–84. doi:10.1177/107179190601200305.

Chan, K., Huang, X., & Ng, P. (2008). Managers’ conflict management styles and employee attitudinal outcomes: the mediating role of trust. Asia Pacific Journal of Management, 25(2),­ 277–295. doi:10.1007/s10490-007-9037-4.

Chiaburu, D.S. & Marinova, S.V. (2006). Employee role enlargement: interactions of trust and organizational fairness. Leadership & Organization Development Journal, 27(3), 168–182. doi:10.1108/01437730610657695.

Choi, J. (2006). A motivational theory of charismatic leadership: envisioning, empathy, and empowerment. Journal of Leadership & Organizational Studies, 13(1), 24–43. doi:10.1177/10717919070130010501.

Chughtai, A. & Buckley, F. (2008). Work engagement and its relationship with state and trait trust: a conceptual analysis. Journal of Behavioral and Applied Management, 10(1), 47–71.

Clapp-Smith, R., Vogelgesang, G.R., & Avey, J.B. (2009). Authentic leadership and positive psychological capital: the mediating role of trust at the group level of analysis. Journal of Leadership & Organizational Studies, 15(3), 227–240. doi:10.1177/1548051808326596.

Colquitt, J.A., Scott, B.A., & LePine, J.A. (2007). Trust, trustworthiness, and trust propensity: a meta-analytic test of their unique relationships with risk taking and job performance. Journal of Applied Psychology, 92(4), 909–927. doi:10.1037/0021-9010.92.4.909.

Connell, J., Ferres, N., & Travaglione, T. (2003). Engendering trust in manager-subordinate ­relationships: predictors and outcomes. Personnel Review, 32, 569–587.

Cook, K.S., Hardin, R., & Levi, M. (2005). Cooperation without trust? New York, NY: Russell Sage Foundation.

Costa, A.C. (2003). Work team trust and effectiveness. Personnel Review, 32, 605–622.

Costigan, R.D., Insinga, R.C., Berman, J., Ilter, S.S., Kranas, G., & Kureshov, V.A. (2006). The effect of employee trust of the supervisor on enterprising behavior: a cross-cultural comparison. Journal of Business and Psychology, 21(2), 273–291. doi:10.1007/s10869-006-9029-2.

Dansereau, F., Graen, G., & Haga, W.J. (1975). A vertical dyad linkage approach to leadership within formal organizations. Organizational Behavior and Human Performance, 13, 46–78.

Dawes, R.M. (1994). House of Cards: Psychology and Psychotherapy Built on Myth. New York: Free Press.

De Cremer, D., van Dijke, M., & Bos, A.R. (2006). Leader’s procedural justice affecting identification and trust. Leadership & Organization Development Journal, 27(7), 554–565. doi:10.1108/01437730610692416.

De Cremer, D. & van Knippenberg, D. (2005). Cooperation as a function of leader self-sacrifice, trust, and identification. Leadership & Organization Development Journal, 26(5), 355–369. doi:10.1108/01437730510607853.

DeConinck, J.B. (2010). The effect of organizational justice, perceived organizational support, and perceived supervisor support on marketing employees’ level of trust. Journal of Business Research, 63(12), 1349–1355. doi:10.1016/j.jbusres.2010.01.003.

DeConinck, J.B. (2011). The effects of ethical climate on organizational identification, supervisory trust, and turnover among salespeople. Journal of Business Research, 64(6), 617–624. doi:10.1016/j.jbusres.2010.06.014.

Deluga, R.J. (1994). Supervisor trust building, leader-member exchange and organizational citizenship behavior. Journal of Occupational and Organizational Psychology, 67(4), 315–326.

Den Hartog, D.N. & De Hoogh, A.B. (2009). Empowering behavior and leader fairness and ­integrity: studying perceptions of ethical leader behavior from a levels-of-analysis perspective. European Journal of Work and Organizational Psychology, 18(2), 199–230. doi:10.1080/13594320802362688.

Dirks, K.T. (2000). Trust in leadership and team performance: evidence from NCAA basketball. Journal of Applied Psychology, 85(6), 1004–1012. doi:10.1037/0021-9010.85.6.1004.

Dirks, K.T. & De Cremer, D. (2011). The repair of trust: insights from organizational behavior and social psychology. In D. De Cremer, R. van Dick, & J. Murnighan, editors. Social Psychology and Organizations. New York, NY: Routledge/Taylor & Francis Group. pp. 211–230

Dirks, K.T., & Ferrin, D.L. (2002). Trust in leadership: meta-analytic findings and implications for organizational research. Journal of Applied Psychology, 87, 611–628.

Ertürk, A. (2010). Exploring predictors of organizational identification: moderating role of trust on the associations between empowerment, organizational support, and identification. European Journal of Work and Organizational Psychology, 19(4), 409–441. doi:10.1080/13594320902834149.

Fairholm, M.R. & Fairholm, G. (2000). Leadership amid the constraints of trust. Leadership & Organization Development Journal, 21(2), 102–109. doi:10.1108/01437730010318192.

Ferrin, D.L. & Dirks, K.T. (2003). The use of rewards to increase and decrease trust: mediating processes and differential effects. Organization Science, 14(1), 18–31. doi:10.1287/orsc.14.1.18.12809.

Ferrin, D.L., Bligh, M.C., & Kohles, J.C. (2007). Can I trust you to trust me? A theory of trust, monitoring, and cooperation in interpersonal and intergroup relationships. Group & Organization Management, 32(4), 465–499. doi:10.1177/1059601106293960.

Ferrin, D.L., Bligh, M.C., & Kohles, J.C. (2008). It takes two to tango: an interdependence analysis of the spiraling of perceived trustworthiness and cooperation in interpersonal and intergroup. Organizational Behavior and Human Decision Processes, 107(2), 161–178. doi:10.1016/j.obhdp.2008.02.012.

Frazier, M., Johnson, P.D., Gavin, M., Gooty, J., & Bradley Snow, D.D. (2010). Organizational justice, trustworthiness, and trust: a multifoci examination. Group & Organization Management, 35(1), 39–76. doi:10.1177/1059601109354801.

Gardner, W.L., Fischer, D., & Hunt, J.G. (2009). Emotional labor and leadership: a threat to authenticity? The Leadership Quarterly, 20(3), 466–482. doi:10.1016/j.leaqua.2009.03.011.

Gillespie, N.A. & Mann, L. (2004). Transformational leadership and shared values: the building blocks of trust. Journal of Managerial Psychology, 19(6), 588–607. doi:10.1108/02683940410551507.

Gómez, C. & Rosen, B. (2001). The leader–member exchange as a link between managerial trust and employee empowerment. Group & Organization Management, 26(1), 53–69. doi:10.1177/1059601101261004.

Hakimi, N., van Knippenberg, D., & Giessner, S. (2010). Leader empowering behavior: the leader’s perspective. British Journal of Management, 21(3), 701–716. doi:10.1111/j.1467-8551.2010.00703.x.

Holtz, B.C. & Harold, C.M. (2008). When your boss says no! The effects of leadership style and trust on employee reactions to managerial explanations. Journal of Occupational and Organizational Psychology, 81(4), 777–802. doi:10.1348/096317907X251569.

Huang, X. & Van De Vliert, E. (2006). Job formalization and cultural individualism as barriers to trust in management. International Journal of Cross Cultural Management, 6(2), 221–242. doi:10.1177/1470595806066331.

Huang, X., Iun, J., Liu, A., & Gong, Y. (2010). Does participative leadership enhance work performance by inducing empowerment or trust? The differential effects on managerial and non-managerial subordinates. Journal of Organizational Behavior, 31(1), 122–143. doi:10.1002/job.636.

Jones, D.A. & Martens, M.L. (2009). The mediating role of overall fairness and the moderating role of trust certainty in justice-criteria relationships: The formation and use of fairness heuristics in the workplace. Journal of Organizational Behavior, 30(8), 1025–1051. doi:10.1002/job.577.

Joseph, E.E. & Winston, B.E. (2005). A correlation of servant leadership, leader trust, and ­organizational trust. Leadership & Organization Development Journal, 26(1), 6–22. doi:10.1108/01437730510575552.

Judge, T.A., Piccolo, R.F., & Hies, R. (2004). The forgotten ones? The validity of consideration and initiating structure in leadership research. Journal of Applied Psychology, 89, 36–51.

Jung, D.I. & Avolio, B.J. (2000). Opening the black box: an experimental investigation of the mediating effects of trust and value congruence on transformational and transactional leadership. Journal of Organizational Behavior, 21(8), 949–964. doi:10.1002/1099-1379(200012)21:8<949::AID-JOB64>3.0.CO;2-F.

Jung, D., Yammarino, F.J., & Lee, J.K. (2009). Moderating role of subordinates’ attitudes on transformational leadership and effectiveness: a multi-cultural and multi-level perspective. The Leadership Quarterly, 20(4), 586–603. doi:10.1016/j.leaqua.2009.04.011.

Kelley, R.E. (2008). Rethinking followership. In Riggio et al., editors. The Art of Followership: How Great Followers Create Great Leaders and Organizations. San Francisco, CA: Jossey-Bass. pp. 5–16.

Keyton, J. & Smith, F.L. (2009). Distrust in leaders: dimensions, patterns, and emotional intensity. Journal of Leadership & Organizational Studies, 16(1), 6–18. doi:10.1177/1548051809334196.

Kim, P.H., Dirks, K.T., & Cooper, C.D. (2009). The repair of trust: a dynamic bilateral perspective and multilevel conceptualization. Academy of Management Review, 34(3), 401–422.

Kim, P.H., Ferrin, D.L., Cooper, C.D., & Dirks, K.T. (2004). Removing the shadow of suspicion: the effects of apology versus denial for repairing competence- versus integrity-based trust violations. Journal of Applied Psychology, 89(1), 104–118. doi:10.1037/0021-9010.89.1.104.

Kramer, R.M. (1999). Trust and distrust in organizations: emerging perspectives, enduring questions. Annual Review Psychology, 50, 569–598.

Kramer, R.M. & Tyler, T.R., editors. (1996). Trust in Organizations. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage.

Lapidot, Y., Kark, R., & Shamir, B. (2007). The impact of situational vulnerability on the development and erosion of followers’ trust in their leader. The Leadership Quarterly, 18(1), 16–34. doi:10.1016/j.leaqua.2006.11.004.

Lapierre, L.M. (2007). Supervisor trustworthiness and subordinates’ willingness to provide extra-role efforts. Journal of Applied Social Psychology, 37(2), 272–297. doi:10.1111/j.0021-9029.2007.00160.x.

Lau, D.C. & Liden, R.C. (2008). Antecedents of coworker trust: leaders’ blessings. Journal of Applied Psychology, 93(5), 1130–1138. doi:10.1037/0021-9010.93.5.1130.

Lee, P., Gillespie, N., Mann, L., & Wearing, A. (2010). Leadership and trust: their effect on knowledge sharing and team performance. Management Learning, 41(4), 473–491. doi:10.1177/1350507610362036.

Levin, D.Z., Whitener, E.M., & Cross, R. (2006). Perceived trustworthiness of knowledge sources: the moderating impact of relationship length. Journal of Applied Psychology, 91(5), 1163–1171. doi:10.1037/0021-9010.91.5.1163.

Lewicki, R.J., Tomlinson, E.C., & Gillespie, N. (2006). Models of interpersonal trust development: theoretical approaches, empirical evidence, and future directions. Journal of Management, 32(6), 991–1022. doi:10.1177/0149206306294405.

Li, P. (2007). Towards an interdisciplinary conceptualization of trust: a typological approach. Management and Organization Review, 3(3), 421–455. doi:10.1111/j.1740-8784.2007.00081.x.

Li, P. (2008). Toward a geocentric framework of trust: an application to organizational trust. Management and Organization Review, 4(3), 413–439. doi:10.1111/j.1740-8784.2008.00120.x.

Liu, J., Siu, O., & Shi, K. (2010). Transformational leadership and employee well-being: the ­mediating role of trust in the leader and self-efficacy. Applied Psychology: An International Review, 59(3), 454–479. doi:10.1111/j.1464-0597.2009.00407.x.

Mach, M. (2010). The differential effect of team members’ trust on team performance: the ­mediation role of team cohesion. Journal of Occupational and Organizational Psychology, 83(3), 771–794.

Martin, M.M. (1999). Trust leadership. Journal of Leadership Studies, 5(3), 41–49. doi:10.1177/107179199900500304.

Mayer, R.C. (2007). Employee loss of trust in management: Surviving in a new era. In J. Langan-Fox, C.L. Cooper, R.J. Klimoski, J. Langan-Fox, C.L. Cooper, & R.J. Klimoski, editors. Research companion to the dysfunctional workplace: Management challenges and symptoms. Northampton, MA: Edward Elgar Publishing. pp. 125–135.

Mayer, R.C. & Gavin, M.B. (2005). Trust in management and performance: who minds the shop while the employees watch the boss? Academy of Management Journal, 48(5), 874–888.

Mayer, R.C., Davis, J.H., & Schoorman, F.D. (1995). An integrative model of organizational trust. Academy of Management Review, 20, 709–734.

McEvily, B., Perrone, V., & Zaheer, A. (2003). Trust as an organizing principle. Organization Science, 14(1), 91–103. doi:10.1287/orsc.14.1.91.12814.

McKnight, D.H., Cummings, L.L., & Chervany, N.L. (1998). Initial trust formation in new organizational relationships. Academy of Management Review, 23(3), 473–490. doi:10.5465/AMR.1998.926622.

Michaelis, B., Stegmaier, R., & Sonntag, K. (2009). Affective commitment to change and innovation implementation behavior: the role of charismatic leadership and employees’ trust in top management. Journal of Change Management, 9(4), 399–417. doi:10.1080/14697010903360608.

Moye, M.J. & Henkin, A.B. (2006). Exploring associations between employee empowerment and interpersonal trust in managers. Journal of Management Development, 25, 101–117.

Mulder, L.B., van Dijk, E., & De Cremer, D. (2009). When sanctions that can be evaded still work: the role of trust in leaders. Social Influence, 4(2), 122–137. doi:10.1080/15534510802469156.

Mulki, J.P., Jaramillo, J.F., & Locander, W.B. (2008). Effect of ethical climate on turnover intention: linking attitudinal- and stress theory. Journal of Business Ethics, 78(4), 559–574. doi:10.1007/s10551-007-9368-6.

Neves, P. & Caetano, A. (2006). Social exchange processes in organizational change: the roles of trust and control. Journal of Change Management, 6(4), 351–364. doi:10.1080/14697010601054008.

Norman, S.M., Avolio, B.J., & Luthans, F. (2010). The impact of positivity and transparency on trust in leaders and their perceived effectiveness. The Leadership Quarterly, 21(3), 350–364. doi:10.1016/j.leaqua.2010.03.002.

Palanski, M.E. & Yammarino, F.J. (2009). Integrity and leadership: a multi-level conceptual framework. The Leadership Quarterly, 20(3), 405–420. doi:10.1016/j.leaqua.2009.03.008.

Palanski, M.E., Kahai, S.S., & Yammarino, F.J. (2011). Team virtues and performance: an examination of transparency, behavioral integrity, and trust. Journal of Business Ethics, 99(2), 201–216. doi:10.1007/s10551-010-0650-7.

Pillai, R. & Meindl, J.R. (1998). Context and charisma: a “meso” level examination of the relationship of organic structure, collectivism, and crisis to charismatic leadership. Journal of Management, 24, 643–671.

Pillai, R., Schriesheim, C. A., & Williams, E.S. (1999). Fairness perceptions and trust as mediators for transformational and transactional leadership: a two-sample study. Journal of Management, 25(6), 897–933. doi:10.1177/014920639902500606.

Podsakoff, P.M., MacKenzie, S.B., Moorman, R.H., & Fetter, R. (1990). Transformational leader behaviors and their effects on followers’ trust in leader, satisfaction, and organizational citizenship behaviors. The Leadership Quarterly, 1, 107–142.

Poon, J.L. (2006). Trust-in-supervisor and helping coworkers: moderating effect of perceived politics. Journal of Managerial Psychology, 21(6), 518–532. doi:10.1108/02683940610684373.

Rafferty, A.E. & Simons, R.H. (2006). An examination of the antecedents of readiness for fine-tuning and corporate transformation changes. Journal of Business and Psychology, 20(3), 325–350. doi:10.1007/s10869-005-9013-2.

Rost, J. (2008). Followership: an outmoded concept. In Riggio et al., editors. The Art of Followership: How Great Followers Create Great Leaders and Organizations. San Francisco, CA: Jossey-Bass. pp. 53–64.

Rousseau, D.M., Sitkin, S.B., Burt, R.S., & Camerer, C. (1998). Not so different after all: a cross-discipline view of trust. Academy of Management Review, 23, 393–404.

Rubin, R.S., Bommer, W.H., & Bachrach, D.G. (2010). Operant leadership and employee citizenship: a question of trust? The Leadership Quarterly, 21(3), 400–408. doi:10.1016/j.leaqua.2010.03.005.

Salamon, S. & Robinson, S.L. (2008). Trust that binds: the impact of collective felt trust on organiza­tional performance. Journal of Applied Psychology, 93(3), 593–601. doi:10.1037/0021-9010.93.3.593.

Salancik, G. & Pfeffer, J. (1978). A social information processing approach to job attitudes and task design. Administrative Science Quarterly, 23(2), 224–253.

Scandura, T.A. & Pellegrini, E.K. (2008). Trust and leader-member exchange: a closer look at relational vulnerability. Journal of Leadership & Organizational Studies, 15(2), 101–110. doi:10.1177/1548051808320986.

Schoorman, F., Mayer, R.C., & Davis, J.H. (2007). An integrative model of organizational trust: past, present, and future. Academy of Management Review, 32(2), 344–354.

Senjaya, S. & Pekerti, A. (2010). Servant leadership as antecedent of trust in organizations. Leadership & Organization Development Journal, 31(7), 643–663. doi:10.1108/01437731011079673.

Seyranian, V. & Bligh, M. (2008). Presidential charismatic leadership: exploring the rhetoric of social change. The Leadership Quarterly, 19, 54–76.

Shamir, B. (1995). Social distance and charisma: theoretical notes and an exploratory study. The Leadership Quarterly, 6(1), 19–47. doi:10.1016/1048-9843(95)90003-9.

Schaubroeck, J., Lam, S.K., & Peng, A. (2011). Cognition-based and affect-based trust as mediators of leader behavior influences on team performance. Journal of Applied Psychology, 96(4), 863– 871. doi:10.1037/a0022625.

Shen, M. & Chen, M. (2007). The relationship of leadership, team trust and team performance: a comparison of the service and manufacturing industries. Social Behavior and Personality, 35(5), 643–658. doi:10.2224/sbp.2007.35.5.643.

Shen, M. & Chen, M. (2007). The relationship of leadership, team trust and team performance: a comparison of the service and manufacturing industries. Social Behavior and Personality, 35(5), 643–658. doi:10.2224/sbp.2007.35.5.643.

Sherwood, A. & DePaolo, C.A. (2005). Task and relationship-oriented trust in leaders. Journal of Leadership & Organizational Studies, 12(2), 65–81. doi:10.1177/107179190501200206.

Simmons, B.L., Gooty, J., Nelson, D.L., & Little, L.M. (2009). Secure attachment: implications for hope, trust, burnout, and performance. Journal of Organizational Behavior, 30(2), 233–247. doi:10.1002/job.585.

Stinglhamber, F., De Cremer, D., & Mercken, L. (2006). Perceived support as a mediator of the relationship between justice and trust: a multiple foci approach. Group & Organization Management, 31(4), 442–468. doi:10.1177/1059601106286782.

Stone, T.H. & Cooper, W.H. (2009). Emerging credits. The Leadership Quarterly, 20(5), 785–798. doi:10.1016/j.leaqua.2009.06.007.

Straiter, K.L. (2005). The effects of supervisor’s trust of subordinates and their organization on job satisfaction and organizational commitment. International Journal of Leadership Studies, 1, 86–101.

Sweeney, P.J. (2010). Do soldiers reevaluate trust in their leaders prior to combat operations? Military Psychology, 22(Suppl. 1), S70–S88. doi:10.1080/08995601003644312.

Sweeney, P.J., Thompson, V., & Blanton, H. (2009). Trust and influence in combat: an interdependence model. Journal of Applied Social Psychology, 39(1), 235–264. doi:10.1111/j.1559-1816.2008.00437.x.

Thau, S., Crossley, C., Bennett, R.J., & Sczesny, S. (2007). The relationship between trust, ­attachment, and antisocial work behaviors. Human Relations, 60(8), 1155–1179. doi:10.1177/0018726707081658.

Tomlinson, E.C. & Mayer, R.C. (2009). The role of casual attribution dimensions in trust repair. Academy of Management Review, 34(1), 85–104.

Tremblay, M.A. (2010). Fairness perceptions and trust as mediators on the relationship between leadership style, unit commitment, and turnover intentions of Canadian Forces personnel. Military Psychology, 22(4), 510–523. doi:10.1080/08995605.2010.513271.

Tyler, T.R. (2003). Trust within organisations. Personnel Review, 32, 556–568.

Tzafrir, S.S., Harel, G.H., Baruch, Y., & Dolan, S.L. (2004). The consequences of emerging HRM practices for employees’ trust in their managers. Personnel Review, 33(6), 628–647. doi:10.1108/00483480410561529.

Vigoda-Gadot, E. & Talmud, I. (2010). Organizational politics and job outcomes: the moderating effect of trust and social support. Journal of Applied Social Psychology, 40(11), 2829–2861. doi:10.1111/j.1559-1816.2010.00683.x.

Walumbwa, F.O., Christensen, A.L., & Hailey, F. (2011). Authentic leadership and the knowledge economy: sustaining motivation and trust among knowledge workers. Organizational Dynamics, 40(2), 110–118. doi:10.1016/j.orgdyn.2011.01.005.

Walumbwa, F.O., Luthans, F., Avey, J.B., & Oke, A. (2011). Authentically leading groups: the mediating role of collective psychological capital and trust. Journal of Organizational Behavior, 32(1), 4–24. doi:10.1002/job.653.

Webber, S. (2002). Leadership and trust facilitating cross-functional team success. Journal of Management Development, 21(3), 201–214. doi:10.1108/02621710210420273.

Werbel, J.D. & Henriques, P. (2009). Different views of trust and relational leadership: supervisor and subordinate perspectives. Journal of Managerial Psychology, 24(8), 780–796. doi:10.1108/02683940910996798.

Yang, J. & Mossholder, K.W. (2010). Examining the effects of trust in leaders: a bases-and-foci approach. The Leadership Quarterly, 21(1), 50–63. doi:10.1016/j.leaqua.2009.10.004.

Yang, J., Mossholder, K.W., & Peng, T.K. (2009). Supervisory procedural justice effects: the mediating roles of cognitive and affective trust. The Leadership Quarterly, 20(2), 143–154. doi:10.1016/j.leaqua.2009.01.009.

Zhang, A., Tsui, A.S., Song, L., Li, C., & Jia, L. (2008). How do I trust thee? The employee-­organization relationship, supervisory support, and middle manager trust in the organization. Human Resource Management, 47(1), 111–132. doi:10.1002/hrm.20200.

Zhao, H., Wayne, S.J., Glibkowski, B.C., & Bravo, J. (2007). The impact of psychological contract breach on work-related outcomes: a meta-analysis. Personnel Psychology, 60(3), 647–680. doi:10.1111/j.1744-6570.2007.00087.x.





6


Leader–Culture Fit: Aligning Leadership and Corporate Culture


Gary N. Burns, Lindsey M. Kotrba, and Daniel R. Denison





6.1 Introduction


Both organizational culture and a leader’s behaviors have been identified as critical ­determinants of an organization’s effectiveness (Berson et al., 2008; Denison, 1984; Schein, 2010). Yet the extent to which the fit between a leader’s behavior and an organization’s culture impacts organizational variables and leader effectiveness has not been empirically examined. This is an important issue for both academics and practitioners in the study of workplace behavior because of its many implications for selection, training, and organizational development.

The purpose of this chapter is to highlight the importance of examining psychological fit in terms of an organization’s culture and leadership. To accomplish this, we must ­discuss the dynamic and reciprocal relationship between leaders and an organization’s culture. In addition, leader–culture fit represents a special case of fit and faces additional challenges and hurdles that must be overcome. While we will review the scant empirical evidence on this topic, our discussion on leader–culture fit will be largely based in the traditional fit literature, focusing on situational aspects that might cause either complementary or supplementary fit to be beneficial. Finally, we will discuss how leader–culture fit can be leveraged for the future and propose a research agenda to advance research in this area.





6.2 Organizational Culture and Leadership


Leaders have long been viewed as a primary influence on the creation of organizational culture (e.g. Bennis & Nanus, 1985; Schein, 1983). According to Schein (1985), the “only thing of real importance that leaders do is to create and manage culture” (p. 2). As Schein discusses, founders have a profound impact on the culture-formation process through the imposition of their own beliefs and assumptions into the group. The adoption of the beliefs, values, and assumptions that form an organization’s culture is further reinforced by leaders through several primary behaviors: what they pay attention to and measure; their reaction to critical incidents, resource allocation, role-modeling, and teaching; rewards and status allocation; and recruitment, selection, and promotion. Moreover, Schein (1985, 2010) contends that key leaders are responsible for modifying culture to keep up with changing demands. This belief is also reflected in Uhl-Bien et al.’s (2007) work on complexity-leadership theory.

Complexity-leadership theory (Uhl-Bien & Marion, 2009; Ulh-Bien et al., 2007) frames leadership as a complex interactivity between the leader and the environment. Within the complexity-leadership paradigm, adaptive outcomes such as learning, innovation, and adaptability emerge as the leader structures and enables conditions in which the organization can engage in creative problem-solving. In other words, they create and promote a culture of change and development. Although focused on a different area, work on leadership and safety has also pinpointed the leader’s role in developing and maintaining a safety culture (Arboleda et al., 2003; Wu et al., 2010).

Evidence for the impact of leadership on culture can also be found in one of the most-researched phenomena of the past two decades: transformational leadership. Focusing on transformational and transactional leadership, there is a recent chapter dedicated to determining the precise nature of the link between leadership and culture (Hartnell & ­Walumbwa, 2011). This chapter presents a multilevel framework, discussing how transformational and transactional leadership affect organizational culture at different levels (i.e. organizational and subculture). More specifically, it suggests that culture provides the normative bounds for transactional leaders to be effective and that transformational leaders influence culture through strategic decisions and vision, by celebrating success, and by identifying and rewarding employees. Though Hartnell & Walumbwa provide a comprehensive picture of these processes, the idea that transformational and transactional leadership provide a useful lens through which to understand the dynamics between relationships is not a new proposition. Indeed, Bass & Avolio (1993) presented a framework for measuring organizational culture developed specifically out of the factors associated with transformational and transactional leadership.

In addition to this theoretical work, there has been some empirical work in this area. For example, in a recent study transformational leadership predicted cultural orientations of support, innovation, goals and rules, and organizational identification above and beyond transactional leadership (Georgada & Xenikou, 2007). In another study, of 1918 members of the Australian Institute of Management, transformational culture was best predicted by transformational leadership styles (Sarros et al., 2002). Thus, a relationship between these constructs has been supported empirically. It has also been suggested that to better handle times of crisis, there is a need for transformational leaders who can develop an adaptive organizational culture (Uhl-Bien et al., 2007). Beyond this work, research has also more specifically focused on leaders’ impact on culture during times of organizational change.

Trice & Beyer (1991) suggest that the mechanisms through which leadership operates to create a new culture or change an existing one are not the same as those used to produce cultural maintenance. More specifically, these authors outline how nine elements of leadership (e.g. personal qualities, behaviors, administrative actions) compare depending on whether leadership produces cultural innovation or cultural maintenance, and discuss how the personal qualities and vision of cultural-innovation leaders are closely aligned with those of charismatic leaders. This idea is in line with Hartnell & Walumbwa (2011), who theorize that transformational leaders shape group norms and challenge assumptions (though they can also maintain culture), while transactional leaders at the subunit level influence organizational effectiveness largely by reinforcing existing cultures.

Other work has focused on the role of leaders in managing culture change. For example, Kotter (1995) suggests that for organizational change to be successful it must be rooted in a culture that is personified by the top levels of leadership. Schein (2010) also discusses the concept of a “learning culture” or a culture that is by nature adaptive and flexible, and the implications for leadership of creating such a culture. Still other studies discuss the importance of leaders in managing successful culture change during mergers and acquisitions (e.g. Kavanagh & Ashkanasy, 2006).

Perhaps guided by Schein’s pivotal work, a majority of the work in the domains of culture and leadership has focused on leaders’ roles in shaping culture, rather than the other way around. However, many of these theories also acknowledge reciprocal influences (e.g. Hartnell & Walumbwa, 2011; Trice & Beyer, 1991), leading researchers to conclude that it is likely that “culture affects leadership as much as leadership affects culture” (Bass & Avolio, 1993, p. 113). In general, a situational perspective would suggest that culture determines leader behavior: just as leadership shapes culture, culture shapes leadership. However, the work on the latter side of this relationship is largely theoretical and qualitative in nature.

The idea that culture shapes leadership stems from the notion that effective leaders pay attention to the existing culture and that this culture impacts how they react and behave. At a basic level, culture can impact how decisions are made (Bass & Avolio, 1993). Thus, leaders not only influence culture, but are in some ways constrained by it (Dickson et al., 2006; Schein, 2010). Despite these theoretical arguments, the empirical support for the idea that culture shapes leadership is lacking. However, research evidence suggests that culture and leadership facilitate one another in achieving organizational effectiveness.

Beyond their role in creating cultures, a leader’s primary role is to develop and maintain an effective culture (Chatman & Cha, 2003). Through a series of case studies, Chatman & Cha (2003) demonstrate that by recognizing culture as a business tool and managing it through selection, socialization, and rewards, leaders can significantly impact the success of their organizations. Supporting this, Berson et al. (2008) and Ogbonna & Harris (2000) both found that culture mediated the relationship between leader characteristics and firm performance. At the same time, organizational culture fosters specific management practices that directly affect ethical behaviors (Toor & Ofori, 2009) and manufacturing performance (Naor et al., 2008)

In sum, leadership and organizational culture are related, and further, the dynamics between these constructs impact organizational effectiveness. However, the theoretical work in this area largely outweighs the empirical, and we believe there is utility in adopting a “fit” perspective for further research in this area.





6.3 Leader–Culture Fit


Like other conceptualizations of fit, leader–culture fit can be seen as the match between a leader and the culture in which they work. Specifically, it is the fit between a leader’s behavior and the organizational culture in which they are operating. In our view, leader–culture fit is similar to popular conceptions of both person–organization and person–group fit. That is, it deals primarily with the beliefs and attitudes that make up the organizational culture and whether the leader’s behavior is consistent with the expectations that arise from that culture. Similarly, there are parallels between leader–culture fit and person–supervisor fit in that both focus on the relationship between supervisors and the people around them. However, while leader–culture fit is similar to other conceptualizations of fit, there are some important differences that need to be considered.

Research on fit typically focuses on the compatibility between individuals and various aspects of an environment, organization, or job (Edwards, 1991; Kristof, 1996). This research has identified fit as an important predictor of stress (Hecht & Allen, 2005), attitudes (Resick et al., 2007), and behaviors (Hoffman & Woehr, 2006). For example, Hecht & Allen (2005) found that fit between an individual’s preference for multitasking and work demands significantly predicted job satisfaction, self-efficacy beliefs, and general psychological strain. For the most recent estimates of these effect sizes, we recommend readers see the meta-analyses by Kristof-Brown et al. (2005) and Hoffman & Woehr (2006).

Fit is a concept that can focus on multiple aspects of a person’s environment. In their meta-analysis, Kristof-Brown et al. (2005) identified five types of fit research that captured the majority of published studies: person–vocation fit, person–job fit, person–organization fit, person–group fit, and person–supervisor fit. Attempting to integrate all of these perceptions of fit, Jansen & Kristof-Brown (2006) proposed a multidimensional theory of person–environment (PE) fit. As represented in their model, fits in these different areas were not simply nested with one another, but overlapped. For example, person–job fit overlaps with both person–organization and person–supervisor fit, but each of these also focuses on unique aspects of the workplace. Supporting this view of the nesting of fit perceptions, Kristof-Brown et al. (2005) reported correlations between different fit concepts, ranging from .30 for person–group and person–supervisor fit to .58 for person–organization and person–job fit. These relationships provide support for the theory of the multidimensional approach to fit. Building upon Jansen & Kristof-Brown’s (2006) model, we present a modified view of the relationships between these aspects of fit in figure 6.1. Note that leader–culture fit exists at two levels, representing both an organizational culture and a work-group culture.

Figure 6.1 The partial nested relationship between various fit aspects of the environment.





6.3.1 Basic considerations of leader–culture fit


Acknowledging the multilevel nature of fit, it is beneficial to discuss the aspects of fit that are most similar to leader–culture fit. Focusing on a broader perspective than person–job fit, person–organization fit focuses on the match between the individual and the entire organization. Research on this has primarily focused on the relationship between individuals and the values and beliefs held by the organization. For example, Resick et al. (2007) measured person–organization fit by directly asking participants the extent to which they felt that their values matched those of the organization. As reviewed by both Hoffman & Woehr (2006) and Kristof-Brown et al. (2005), person–organization fit shows moderately strong relationships with a variety of behavioral outcomes (absenteeism, turnover, task performance, contextual performance) and workplace attitudes (organizational attraction, job satisfaction, organizational commitment, intent to quit, workplace strains). Focusing even more narrowly, it is also possible to examine fit between the individual and their work group. Unfortunately, only a handful of studies have examined fit at this level.

At a more interpersonal level, researchers have focused on person–supervisor or leader–follower fit. This level of fit focuses on the nature of the relationship between organizational leaders and the subordinates they supervise. Like person–organization and person–group fit, this type of fit often focuses on the similarity between a leader’s and their followers’ values (e.g. Colbert, 2004; Krishnan, 2002). In addition to the focus on values, research in this area has also examined goal congruence and personality similarities. Leader–culture fit also draws parallels with the leader–follower-fit literature, but focuses on the shared values of members of the organization and the actions of the targeted leader.

Like person–job or person–group fit, leader–culture fit can be viewed in terms of both the demands–ability- and needs–supply-fit paradigms. In terms of the demands–ability model, leader–culture fit can be seen as assessing whether a leader’s management and behavioral pattern is consistent with the demands of the organization’s culture, as reflected by the values held by the individuals making up the organization. An example of fit in this case would be where a leader is able to motivate subordinates in a largely autonomous work unit. From the needs–supply-fit paradigm, we examine whether the organization supplies the psychological needs that the leader requires or the leader supplies the needs of the organization. For example, can a manager fill the void created by an organization’s culture where that culture has prohibited decision-making at the lower levels of the organization, and the leader must provide the directive behavior to ensure that all tasks are accomplished?

In addition to being multidimensional, this discussion also illustrates that leader–culture fit is an important part of organizational effectiveness from a multilevel perspective. That is, leader–culture fit will likely have an impact on the leader, their followers, the work group, and the organization as a whole. Because of this, researchers will need to carefully consider the criteria of interest and match these with the most appropriate perspective of leadership. For example, when examining a manager’s job satisfaction and commitment, it would be most appropriate to examine their perceptions of their own behaviors. When examining job performance or unit effectiveness, it might be best to capture 360-degree ratings of leaders’ behaviors – this would allow for an examination of how these behaviors and their fit with culture uniquely influence performance criteria. Yet again, when interested in the relationship between leaders and their followers, it might be useful to examine fit from the perspective of both the leader and their subordinates. It is likely that both perspectives will add to the understanding of the impact of leader–culture fit.

Although we expect multilevel configurations of leader–culture fit that require different views of the leader, we believe it is important that culture reflect the aggregate of others’ beliefs about the cultural aspects under consideration. While it is possible to obtain this information from the leader, an aggregate of information from others will provide more information about the actual culture of a work group or organization, as opposed to the perceived culture (Jung et al., 2009). Support for using such aggregates in previous fit research was found by Kristof-Brown et al. (2005): although not directly assessing leader–culture fit, they found that studies using aggregates of individuals’ perception of the organization in fit research yielded larger effects than those in which a single individual rated the organizational level.





6.3.2 Perceived fit, subjective fit, and objective fit


In addition to addressing the source of information, it is important to determine what type of leader–culture fit is going to be assessed. In the fit literature, three approaches to measuring fit are often differentiated: perceived fit, subjective fit, and objective fit (Cable & Edwards, 2004; Jansen & Kristof-Brown, 2006). Combined with the issue of the source of ratings, this indicates a vast number of ways that leader–culture fit can be addressed. We discuss each of these methods in this section and provide recommendations.

Perceived fit is considered a direct measure of fit and is obtained by asking an individual about their perceptions of fit with the environment (Edwards, 1991; French et al., 1974; Kristof, 1996). For leader–culture fit, this might be as simple as asking a leader if they believe that their behaviors match the behaviors valued by their organization’s culture. While assessment of leader–culture fit would be simple with this approach, one potential problem of assessing perceived fit is inaccuracies caused by human bias. Both Endler & Magnussen (1976) and French et al. (1974) argue that individuals have the propensity to interpret environmental cues in ways that allow them to maintain a positive self-concept. As such, their perceptions of leader–culture fit might be skewed positively or negatively depending on their attitudes towards the workplace. Note that from this perspective, perceived fit can be measured from a variety of viewpoints (e.g. leader’s self-perceived fit, supervisor’s perceived fit of leader’s behaviors, subordinates’ perceived fit of leader’s behaviors, etc.). Although we would encourage researchers to explore the objective-fit approach discussed later, the simplicity of measuring perceived fit makes it possible to quickly include this type of measure within other research opportunities. From this perspective, we encourage researchers to consider whether they can add these perceived-fit measures to other studies to help grow the initial literature on leader–culture fit.

Perceived fit is a direct measure of fit. French et al. (1974) have differentiated indirect measures of fit as being either subjective or objective. Subjective fit typically involves having the target provide ratings of both themselves and the environment, as they see them to be (Cable & Edwards, 2004). For example, if you asked a leader to describe their ­empowering behaviors and the organizational culture of empowerment, you would have the necessary information to compute subjective fit. While this would be possible, we again suggest that culture be measured at an aggregate level: that of the work group or of the entire organization. By doing this, we are limiting the potential bias of the leader (or other rating source) from distorting perceptions of fit.

French et al. (1974) describe objective fit as the match between the individual and the environment as they really are, independent of the individual’s perceptions. Unfortunately, as noted by Caplan (1987), objective measurement of both the person and the environment is a considerable challenge for researchers. For some aspects of the environment it is relatively easy to conceptualize an objective measure. For example, in examining the physical dimensions of the workspace or the quality of machinery available it should be relatively simple to acquire an objective measurement. Objective indices of job demand and control have also been gathered through job analysis (Elsass & Veiga, 1997). However, the number of environmental features that can be measured objectively is limited. The majority of topics to which researchers will want to apply leader–culture fit will mostly likely not conform to these approaches. In this case, the most objective measures of fit will be achieved when the ratings of neither the target nor the environment come from the object of the fit analysis (Jansen & Kristof-Brown, 2006). From this perspective, subordinate ratings of leadership can be matched with organizational culture to determine the level of leader–culture fit.

While it might seem better to get the most objective measures of fit, research in the stress and strain literature suggests that choosing between objective and subjective fit should be done carefully. While objective-fit measures help to remove the bias of the leader’s perspective, some dependent variables might actually be reliant upon this perspective. For example, Lazarus (1966) argues that objective stressors do not relate to strains as well as subjective stressors do. Specifically, strain is a function of how the target views these stressors. Likewise, if examining leader–culture fit from the perspective of subordinates, it might be best to get their perceptions of the leader’s behaviors, since this is the lens through which they view the workplace.

While these three methods of assessing fit should result in similar indices, past research indicates that they are only weakly related (Kristof-Brown & Stevens, 2001). ­Furthermore, Kristof-Brown et al.’s (2005) meta-analysis indicated that the pattern of relationships of perceived, subjective, and objective fit with organizational criteria varied depending on the criteria. For example, with person–job fit all three tended to equally predict job ­satisfaction, but with intent to quit the perceived-fit indices were a stronger predictor than the subjective- or objective-fit indices. Overall, we recommend that researchers examine ­measures of objective fit or a hybrid of objective/subjective fit in which leaders rate their own behaviors but culture is collected at the organization or work-group level. The advantage of this approach will be more fully realized when examining dependent variables that exist outside of the leader, such as perceptions of effectiveness.





6.4 Research on Leader–Culture Fit


While leader–culture fit has important implications for manager and organizational efficiency, it is a topic that has received almost no attention. Most of the research examining this topic has been indirect, focusing on national culture or leader–follower value congruence. In this section we review the literature related to leader–culture fit, discuss the difference between complementary and supplementary fit, and provide examples from our own research program.





6.4.1 Current state of leader–culture-fit research


Unfortunately, the current state of leader–culture fit research is sparse, with only marginally-related research addressing this topic. At the broader national-culture level, there is research attempting to link leadership behaviors to cultural values, but this doesn’t extend to the level of organizational culture. However, focusing even more narrowly, there is a growing body of literature examining leader–follower fit. While reviewed in this section, both of these miss what we believe is an important level in understanding leader–culture fit.





6.4.1.1 National leader–culture fit


Given the spread of multinational corporations, it is not surprising that several studies have investigated national-cultural differences in leadership and leadership effectiveness. This level of cross-cultural investigation seeks to understand which leadership behaviors and styles are supported by different national cultures. At the very basic level, this research indicates that subordinates working with leaders from their own country of origin are more efficient and satisfied than subordinates working under a supervisor from another country (Testa, 2002). At a more complex level, it indicates that preferences for different leadership styles vary by cultural values, even amongst cultures that may appear similar to outside observers (Rodsuitti et al., 2002).

One method of examining cultural differences in leadership focuses on the leadership prototypes that subordinates hold (Lord et al., 1984). Lord et al.’s (1984) implicit-leadership theory holds that early in our work careers, or even earlier through societal exposure, we form a prototype of what a leader is supposed to be like. Work in this area indicates that the degree of match between a leader’s actual characteristics and this prototype influences the power given to the leader (Maurer & Lord, 1991), with the effects being strongest in the environment in which the prototype was formed (Lord et al., 2001). Furthermore, Gerstner & Day (1994) have found that these leadership prototypes systematically vary across cultures. Working outside of the implicit-leadership paradigm, Fein et al. (2011) have also found that individual differences in cultural values are linked to preferred leadership behaviors. The implication of this research is that leadership that matches the views espoused by the culture will be more effective than leadership that does not match the culturally-expected values.

Leaders acting in alignment with the national culture will be more effective than those whose behaviors are out of alignment (Euwema et al., 2007; Yukl et al., 2003). For example, Yukl et al. (2003) found that managers acting in alignment with the preferred management style were more effective at implementing and directing organizational change than those using techniques that were out of alignment. Furthermore, it appears that leader–culture fit at the national level influences not only effectiveness but also the level of strain experienced by employees. For example, Chen & Kao (2009) found that although paternalistic leadership was positively related to psychological health in Chinese workers, the same characteristic was actually negatively related to the psychological health of non-Chinese workers.





6.4.1.2 Analogs of leader–culture fit at the organizational level


Moving away from national culture, there is a growing trend for researchers to examine PE fit within work groups or between leaders and followers (Kristof-Brown et al., 2005). Atwater & Dionne (2007) describe a process model of leader–follower fit whose primary implication is that leaders whose values and behaviors match those of their followers are more efficient and effective in enabling their followers to accomplish their work. While most of the literature focuses on subordinates (Kristof-Brown et al., 2005), there is some research examining the impact of leader–culture fit from the leader’s perspective. Some of this examines culture, but from a perspective that is more akin to person–organization fit than the description of leader–culture fit that we provide.

Most of the leader–follower fit literature builds from the value-congruence literature (Edwards, 1991). At the broadest level, we can see leader–follower fit being a function of the attraction–selection–attrition process that shapes organizations (Schneider et al., 1995). Work examining this process has highlighted both how top leadership influences organizational culture (Giberson et al., 2009) and how differences in organizational culture influence perceived work requirements (Li et al., 2008). Moving down from top leadership, research indicates that when leaders’ behaviors and values match those of the subordinate they supervise, the subordinates experience greater satisfaction (Meglino et al., 1991) and exhibit higher levels of performance (Turban & Jones, 1988).

Other studies have also examined the impact of cultural fit on leaders, though not directly leader–culture fit. Both Lovelace & Rosen (1996) and Harris & Mossholder (1996) have directly examined how well managers believe their culture aligns with an idealized organizational culture. Although this is different from our definition of leader–culture fit, their results indicate that misfit leads to job dissatisfaction, intention to leave, greater stress, and lower levels of optimism about the organization’s future. Although idealized culture reflects the value-congruence perspective of person–job and person–organization fit, these results indicate that a misfit between a leader’s preferred method of operating and their perceptions of the organization’s culture results in negative outcomes. Research on leader–culture fit should more directly examine the alignment between leadership styles and actual organization culture, and the impact of this alignment on work outcomes.





6.4.2 Complementary and supplementary fit


In exploring issues of leader–culture fit it is also important to specify whether the fit relationship will be one of complementary or supplementary fit. These two types of fit represent two separate traditions in the fit literature, but both have important implications for leader–culture fit. In addition, it is likely that researchers will have to consider both in order to fully understand the complexities of leader–culture fit. We will illustrate the difference between these two approaches with results from Kotrba et al. (2011), who examined the impact of leader–culture fit along 12 dimensions on 360-degree ratings of leader effectiveness.

Complementary fit is obtained when either a person’s or an organization’s characteristics provide something that the other desires or needs in order to be effective (Cable & Edwards, 2004). Complementary fit can thus be achieved in one of two ways. First, the leader’s behaviors can fill a gap created by the organization’s culture. Second, the organization’s culture can balance the leader’s management style. This type of fit can be seen as arising from research on psychological need fulfillment (Edwards, 1991). From this perspective, the leader is supplying something to the organization that its culture is currently lacking, or vice versa.

An example of complementary leader–culture fit is illustrated by Kotrba et al. (2011) on the dimension of empowerment. As defined by these researchers, empowerment entails creating a sense of ownership and responsibility amongst individuals at all levels of an ­organization by ensuring that they have the authority, initiative, and ability to manage their own work. The results, shown in figure 6.2, indicate that leaders illustrating many empowering behaviors are rated the most effective in organizational cultures that are low in empowerment, while leaders showing few empowering behaviors are rated the highest in cultures high in empowerment. In this example, fit is complementary because leaders who possess something different from the organization are viewed as more effective than those who possess the same characteristics as it.

Figure 6.2 Complementary-fit example for empowerment.



Supplementary fit, on the other hand, exists when the leader and the organization show matching characteristics (Kristof, 1996). Arising from the value-congruence literature discussed earlier, this tradition indicates that fit will be achieved when the leader and the culture show matching levels on the dimensions being examined. Kotrba et al. (2011) did not find any examples of perfect supplementary fit; however, the dimension of vision illustrated supplementary fit at the high and low ends of the spectrum. Vision focused on whether the organization had a shared view of the future, embodying core values and providing direction, and whether the leader engaged in behaviors to create a sense of this. As shown in figure 6.3, leaders who engaged in a high level of vision-related behavior were rated as being more effective in organizations with high levels of culture, while leaders who did not engage in these behaviors were rated as being more effective in organizations with a low level of vision culture. Had the fit been perfect, the center of figure 6.3 would also be elevated, creating a ridge running from the bottom-center corner to the top-center corner, indicating that symmetry between a leader’s behaviors and an organization’s culture leads to increased ratings of effectiveness. Instead, fit only appears to be an issue in cultures with either high or low vision values.

Figure 6.3 Suplementary-fit example for vision.



Note that although we use the terms “supplementary fit” and “complementary fit,” in the examples provided in this section both are measured as objective-fit indices. Recall that this means that two separate sources provided the ratings—leadership ratings were provided by 360-degree ratings, while culture was an aggregate of multiple ratings of the organization’s culture. This is important because a large number of studies examining supplementary and complementary fit will measure these as either perceived- or subjective-fit indices. For supplementary fit, this typically involves asking whether the individual is receiving the “right” amount of the characteristic in question. Measures of complementary fit will often focus on how important the characteristic is to the individual. As described earlier, leader–culture fit is framed differently. Specifically, it looks at the interactive relationship between a leader’s behaviors and the organization’s culture. That being said, researchers utilizing self-reports for subjective fit might want to consider both types of fit, as Cable & Edwards (2004) found both to be predictive in the same scenario.





6.4.3 Limitations of current leader–culture research


Although we believe that leader–culture fit is an important framework in which to understand both leadership and organizational effectiveness, several issues have slowed the development of research into this topic. First is the subject of commensurate measures: as with actual measures, there are issues as to how fit should be quantified. Second, as a new area of research, the study of leader–culture fit would benefit from being more strongly anchored to existing theories of organizational behavior. In this section we discuss each of these issues in order to identify ways of better leveraging leader–culture fit for the future.

Unless working with purely perceived measures of fit, researchers seeking to examine fit must identify measures for both the target leaders and the culture. One of the requirements of conducting this type of fit research is the need for commensurate measures of both the person and the environment (Caplan, 1987; Edwards, 1991). That is, both the person and the environment need to be measured using the same content dimensions. Without commensurate measures, it is more difficult to argue that high levels of fit indicate alignment between an individual and an organization (Kristof, 1996). Unfortunately, leaders’ behaviors and organizational culture are hardly ever measured on the same dimensions. We believe that this is one of the major contributing factors to the lack of research on leader–culture fit, despite the relative importance of both topics.

An exception to the practice of measuring leaders and cultures on different metrics can be seen with the Denison model (Denison, 1997; Denison & Mishra, 1995). Originally developed to measure culture along four dimensions, the Denison model was also used as the foundation from which to describe effective leadership behaviors within organizations. As such, this model provides a unique opportunity to examine the fit between leaders and culture. While this has been beneficial for us, there is a strong need for the development of other commensurate measures that can be made publically available. Interesting initial work in this process can be seen in Dierdorff et al. (2009), who begin linking work context to role requirements in terms of the O*NET framework. Similarly, work measuring organizational culture in terms of transformational leadership appears to be a good start towards creating commensurate measures in this area (Bass & Avolio, 1993; Sarros et al., 2002).

A second issue that leader–culture-fit researchers will have to consider is how to operationalize their definition of fit. Fit can be conceptualized in many different ways, but each provides slightly different information, with different associated costs. Much of the early research examining fit made use of various difference scores, with the difference in measures representing different functions of fit (Edwards, 1991; Edwards & Parry, 1993). While difference scores only focus on a single dimension, research on profile similarity examines scores across dimensions or items to determine the fit between the target and the environment. Note, however, that both the similarity and the distance indices have been strongly criticized as suffering from methodological problems and constraints (Edwards, 1993, 1994).

New approaches to examining fit offer the potential to circumvent the problems associated with difference scores and profile indices but still provide a corresponding assessment of fit between commensurate dimensions. One such approach is that of polynomial ­regression and response-surface methodology (Edwards, 1993; Edwards & Parry, 1993). ­Polynomial regression provides a familiar framework through which to examine the relationship between fit and a criterion, but perhaps its strongest feature is the ability to graph a three-dimensional surface plot in order to examine the complexities of PE fit (figures 6.2 and 6.3). Although polynomial regression does not provide any fit indices per se, Shanock et al. (2010) give a helpful tutorial on creating surface values, which indicate the extent to which fit influences the dependent variable. Another approach was introduced by Cheung (2009) in order to examine fit between latent variables. This approach, the latent-­congruence model, is similar to polynomial regression in that it examines the effects of congruence between the person and the environment. Cheung, however, argues that this approach is capable of modeling both the congruence and the component effects of both the person and the environment. Recent criticisms of polynomial regression in fit research suggest that it focuses primarily on just the components of the person and the environment (Yang et al., 2008).

A third feature that has limited the advancement of leader–culture fit research is the lack of a theoretical framework. While there are no uniting theories of leadership and culture, the existing leadership research is full of theories that address the underlying issues. For example, going back as far as Fiedler’s (1967) contingency theory and House’s (1971) path–goal theory, leadership researchers have posited that leaders will only be effective when their behavior is matched to the environment in which they function. This role of interactionalism has been more fully considered in more recent work such as Uhl-Bien et al.’s (2007) leadership-complexity theory and work bridging transformational leadership to organizational culture (Sarros et al., 2002).





6.5 Conclusion


The relationship between culture and leadership appears to be reciprocal—top leaders create and maintain an organizational culture, which in turn influences the values, attitudes, and behaviors of middle and entry-level leaders. Although leader–culture fit has not been specifically studied in the published literature, we believe that there is value in examining the match between a leader’s behaviors and the culture in which they work. While research hasn’t examined this at the level we discuss, current research does suggest that fit is important at the national level and at the leader–follower level. Expansion of this research will help determine what aspects of leader–culture fit are determinants of leader and organizational effectiveness.

Although there are a variety of approaches that researchers can take to examining leader–culture fit, we offer the following recommendations. First, although studies of ­perceived fit are of limited value, the ease of collecting this data should motivate researchers to start thinking about adding questions concerning leader–culture fit. Given the lack of published findings, this research can begin shaping our knowledge about this phenomenon. Second, while studies of subjective fit will be more important, researchers should utilize 360-degree measurement systems in order to also obtain the most objective fit indices possible. This practice will likely tell us more about the impact of fit than just examining leaders’ self-reports. Third, it is important to measure culture at the aggregate level in order to ensure that the actual values of the organization are being captured, not just the leader’s values. Although these recommendations may be difficult to achieve in practice, they offer the best hope of leveraging leader–culture fit for the future.





References


Arboleda, A., Morrow, P.C., Crum, M.R., & Shelley, M.C. (2003). Management practices as antecedents of safety culture within the trucking industry: similarities and differences by hierarchical level. Journal of Safety Research, 34, 189–197.

Atwater, L. & Dionne, S. (2007). A process model of leader-follower fit. In C. Ostroff & T.A. Judge, editors. Perspectives on Organizational Fit. Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum. pp. 183–208.

Bass, B. & Avolia, B. (1993). Transformational leadership and organizational cultural. Public Administration Quarterly, 17, 112–121.

Bennis, W. & Nanus, B. (1985). Leaders. New York: Harper & Row.

Berson, Y., Oreg, S., & Dvir, T. (2008). CEO values, organizational culture and firm outcomes. Journal of Organizational Behavior, 29, 615–633.

Cable, D.M. & Edwards, J.R. (2004). Complementary and supplementary fit: a theoretical and empirical integration. Journal of Applied Psychology, 89, 822–834.

Caplan, R.D. (1987). Person-environment fit theory and organizations: commensurate dimensions, time perspectives, and mechanisms. Journal of Vocational Behavior, 31, 248–267.

Chatman, J.A. & Cha, S.E. (2003). Leading by leveraging culture. California Management Review, 45, 20–34.

Chen, H. & Kao, H.S. (2009). Chinese paternalistic leadership and non-Chinese subordinates’ psychological health. The International Journal of Human Resource Management, 20, 2533–2546.

Cheung, G.W. (2009). A multiple-perspective approach to data analysis in congruence research. Organizational Research Methods, 12, 63–68.

Colbert, A.E. (2004). Understanding the Effects of Transformational Leadership: The Mediating Role of Leader-Follower Value Congruence. Unpublished doctoral dissertation, University of Iowa.

Denison, D.R. (1984). Bringing corporate culture to the bottom line. Organizational Dynamics, 13, 4–22.

Denison, D.R. (1997). Corporate Culture and Organizational Effectiveness, 2nd edition. Ann Arbor, MI: Denison Consulting.

Denison, D.R. & Mishra, A.K. (1995). Toward a theory of organizational culture and effectiveness. Organization Science, 6, 204–223.

Dickson, M.W., Resick, C.J., & Hanges, P.J. (2006). Systematic variation in organizationally-shared cognitive prototypes of effective leadership based on organizational form. Leadership Quarterly, 17, 487–505.

Dierdorff, E.C., Rubin, R.S., & Morgeson, F.P. (2009). The milieu of managerial work: an integrative framework linking work context to role requirements. Journal of Applied Psychology, 94, 972–988.

Edwards, J.R. (1991). Person-job fit: a conceptual integration, literature review, and methodological critique. In C.L. Cooper & I.T. Robertson, editors. International Review of Industrial and Organizational Psychology, volume 6. Oxford, UK: Wiley. pp. 283–357.

Edwards, J.R. (1993). Problems with the use of profile similarity indices in the study of congruence in organizational research. Academy of Management Journal, 36, 1577–1613.

Edwards, J.R. (1994). The study of congruence in organizational behavior research: critique and a proposed alternative. Organizational Behavior and Human Decision Processes, 58, 51–100.

Edwards, J.R. & Parry, M.E. (1993). On the use of polynomial regression equations as an alternative to difference scores in organizational research. Academy of Management Journal, 36, 1577–1613.

Elsass, P.M. & Veiga, J.F. (1997). Job control and job strain: a test of three models. Journal of Occupational Health Psychology, 2, 195–211.

Endler, N.S. & Magnussen, D. (1976). Interactional psychology and personality. Washington, DC: Hemisphere.

Euwema, M.C., Wendt, H., & van Emmerik, H. (2007). Leadership styles and group organizational citizenship behavior across cultures. Journal of Organizational Behavior, 28, 1035–1057.

Fein, E.C., Vasiliu, C., & Tziner, A. (2011). Individual values and preferred leadership behaviors: a study of Romanian managers. Journal of Applied Social Psychology, 41, 515–535.

Fiedler, F.E. (1967). A Theory of Leadership Effectiveness. New York: McGraw-Hill.

French, J.R.P., Rodgers, W.L., & Cobb, S. (1974). Adjustment as person-environment fit. In G. Coelho, D. Hamburg, & J. Adams, editors. Coping and Adaptation. New York: Basic Books. pp. 316–333.

Georgada, K. & Xenikou, A. (2007). Transformational and transactional leadership: the augmenting effect on organizational culture and identification with the organization. The Journal of the Hellenic Psychological Society, 14, 410–423.

Gerstner, C.R. & Day, D.V. (1994). Cross-cultural comparison of leadership prototypes. The Leadership Quarterly, 5, 121–134.

Giberson, T.R., Resick, C.J., Dickson, M.W., Mitchelson, J.K., Randall, K.R., & Clark, M.A. (2009). Leadership and organizational culture: linking CEO characteristics to cultural values. Journal of Business and Psychology, 24, 123–137.

Harris, S.G. & Mossholder, K.W. (1996). The affective implications of perceived congruence with culture dimensions during organizational transformation. Journal of Management, 22, 527–547.

Hartnell, C.A. & Walumbwa, F.O. (2011). Transformational leadership and organizational culture: toward integrating a multilevel framework. In N. Ashkanasy, C. Wilderom, and M. Peterson, editors. The Handbook of Organizational Culture and Climate, 2nd edition. Los Angeles, CA: Sage Publications, pp. 225–248.

Hecht, T.D. & Allen, N.J. (2005). Exploring links between polychronicity and well-being from the perspective of person-job fit: Does it matter if you prefer to do only one thing at a time? Organizational Behavior and Human Decision Processes, 98, 155–178.

Hoffman, B.J. & Woehr, D.J. (2006). A quantitative review of the relationship between person-organization fit and behavioral outcomes. Journal of Vocational Behavior, 68, 389–399.

House, R.J. (1971). A path goal theory of leader effectiveness. Administrative Science Quarterly, 16, 321–339.

Jansen, K.J. & Kristof-Brown, A. (2006). Toward a multidimensional theory of person-environment fit. Journal of Managerial Issues, 18, 193–212.

Jung, T., Scott, T., Davies, H.T.O., Bower, P., Whalley, D., McNally, R., & Mannion, R. (2009). Instruments for exploring organizational culture: a review of the literature. Public Administration Review, 69, 1087–1096.

Kavanagh, M. & Ashkanasy, N. (2006). The impact of leadership and change management strategy on organizational culture and individual acceptance of change during a merger. British Journal of Management, 17, S81–S103.

Kotrba, L., Burns, G.N., & Smerek, R. (2011). Assessing the impact of leader-culture fit on managerial effectiveness. In L. Nieminen (Chair) Challenging the Positive View of P-O Fit within the ASA Model. Presented at the 71st annual meeting of the Academy of Management, San Antonio, TX.

Kotter, J. (1995). Leading change: why transformation efforts fail. Harvard Business Review, 73, 59–67.

Krishnan, V.R. (2002). Transformational leadership and value system congruence. International Journal of Value-Based Management, 15, 19–33.

Kristof, A.L. (1996). Person-organization fit: an integrative review of its conceptualizations, measurement, and implications. Personnel Psychology, 49, 1–49.

Kristof-Brown, A.L. & Stevens, C.K. (2001). Goal congruence in project teams: does the fit between members’ personal mastery and performance goals matter? Journal of Applied Psychology, 86, 1083–1095.

Kristof-Brown, A.L., Zimmerman, R.D., & Johnson, E.C. (2005). Consequences of individual’s fit at work: a meta-analysis of person-job, person-organization, person-group, and person-supervisor fit. Personnel Psychology, 58, 281–342.

Lazarus, R.S. (1966). Psychological Stress and the Coping Process. New York: McGraw-Hill.

Li, W., Wang, Y., Taylor, P., Shi, K., & He, D. (2008). The influence of organizational culture on work-related personality requirement ratings: a multilevel analysis. International Journal of Selection and Assessment, 16, 366–384.

Lord, R.G., Brown, D.J., Harvey, J.L., & Hall, R.J. (2001). Contextual constraints on prototype generation and their multi-level consequences for leadership perceptions. Leadership Quarterly, 12, 311–338.

Lord, R.G., Foti, R., & De Vader, C. (1984). A test of leadership categorization theory: internal structure, information processing, and leadership perceptions. Organizational Behavior and Human Performance, 34, 343–378.

Lovelace, K. & Rosen, B. (1996). Differences in achieving person-organization fit among diverse groups of managers. Journal of Management, 22, 703–722.

Maurer, T.J. & Lord, R.G. (1991). An exploration of cognitive demands in group interaction as a moderator of information processing variables in perceptions of leadership. Journal of Applied Social Psychology, 21, 821–839.

Meglino, B.M., Ravlin, E.C., & Adkins, C.L. (1991). Value congruence and satisfaction with a leader: an examination of the role of interaction. Human Relations, 44, 481–495.

Naor, M., Goldstein, S.M., Linderman, K.W., & Schroeder, R.G. (2008). The role of culture as driver of quality management and performance: infrastructure versus core quality practices. Decision Sciences, 39, 671–702.

Ogbonna, E. & Harris, L. (2000). Leadership style, organizational culture and performance: empirical evidence from UK companies. The International Journal of Human Resource Management, 11, 766–788.

Resick, C.J., Baltes, B.B., & Shantz, C.W. (2007). Person-organization fit and work-related attitudes and decisions: examining interactive effects with job fit and conscientiousness. Journal of Applied Psychology, 92, 1446–1455.

Rodsuitti, M., Champathes, & Swierczek, F.W. (2002). Leadership and organizational effectiveness in multinatioinal enterprises in southeast Asia. Leadership & Organization Development Journal, 23, 250-259.

Sarros, J., Gray, J., & Densten, I. (2002). Leadership and its impact on organizational culture. International Journal of Business Studies, 10, 1–26.

Shanock, L.R., Baran, B.E., Gentry, W.A., Pattison, S.C., & Heggestad, E.D. (2010). Polynomial regression with response surface analysis: a powerful approach for examining moderation and overcoming limitations of difference scores. Journal of Business Psychology, 25, 543–554.

Schein, E. (1983). The role of the founder in creating organizational culture. Organizational Dynamics, Summer, 13–28.

Schein, E. (1985). Organizational Culture and Leadership. San Francisco: Jossey-Bass.

Schein, E.H. (2010). Organizational Culture and Leadership, 4th edition. San Francisco, CA: Jossey-Bass.

Schneider, B., Goldstein, H.W., & Smith, D.B. (1995). The ASA framework: an update. Personnel Psychology, 48, 747–773.

Testa, M.R. (2002). Leadership dyads in the cruise industry: the impact of cultural congruency. International Journal of Hospitality Management, 21, 425–441.

Toor, S. & Ofori, G. (2009). Ethical leadership: examining the relationships with full range leadership model, employee outcomes, and organizational culture. Journal of Business Ethics, 90, 533–547.

Trice, H. & Beyer, J. (1991). Cultural leadership in organizations. Organizational Science, 2, 149–169.

Turban, D.B. & Jones, A.P. (1988). Supervisor-subordinate similarity: types, effects, and mechanisms. Journal of Applied Psychology, 73, 228–234.

Ulh-Bien, M. & Marion, R. (2009). Complexity leadership in bureaucratic forms of organizing: a meso model. The Leadership Quarterly, 20, 631–650.

Uhl-Bien, M., Marion, R., & McKelvey, B. (2007). Complexity leadership theory: shifting leadership from the industrial age to the knowledge era. The Leadership Quarterly, 18, 298–318.

Yang, L.Q., Levine, E.L., Smith, M.A., Ispas, D., & Rossi, M.E. (2008). Person-environment fit or person plus environment: a meta-analysis of studies using polynomial regression analysis. Human Resource Management Review, 18, 311–321.

Yukl, G., Fu, P.P., & McDonald, R. (2003). Cross-cultural differences in perceived effectiveness of influence tactics for initiating or resting change. Applied Psychology: An International Review, 52, 68–82.

Wu, T., Lin, C., & Shiau, S. (2010). Predicting safety culture: the roles of employer, operations manager and safety professional. Journal of Safety Research, 41, 423–431.





7


When Leaders are Bullies: Concepts, Antecedents, and Consequences


Ståle Einarsen, Anders Skogstad, and Lars Glasø





7.1 Introduction


Superior–subordinate relationships may certainly be filled with rewards, feelings of ­recognition, and perceptions of meaning and competency for both parties. Yet, for a ­subordinate, this relationship may also form the basis for punishment, abuse, and mistreatment, accompanied by feelings of frustration, uncertainty, anxiety, and resentment (e.g. Glasø & Einarsen, 2006). Leadership research often equates a leader with a supportive and efficient leader (Kellerman, 2004), and hence mainly investigates factors associated with favorable outcomes among subordinates, such as increased motivation, performance, and positive work-related attitudes (Tepper, 2007). As is the case with the Full Range of Leadership model (Bass & Avolio, 1994), leader-oriented leadership models generally portray leader behaviors on dimensions ranging from passive to active, and from ineffective to effective. But what if leaders and supervisors in their treatment of subordinates are not passive and ineffective, but rather effective and actively bad? Moreover, what if good leaders are also bad, be it simultaneously, on another behavioral domain, or simply not being consistent in their behavior across time, situations, and subordinates (see also Aasland, et al., 2010, 2008; Schriesheim & Neider, 2010). Research on bullying at work has documented that some 5–10% of employees are subjected to severe and long-term bullying at any one time (Zapf et al., 2003), with between 50 and 80% of all cases involving a superior in the role of the alleged bully. An American study revealed that some 13.5% of all workers were severely affected by an abusive supervisor at any given time (Schat et al., 2006), while an English study showed 40% of public-sector workers to have experienced bullying from a leader during their working career (UNISON, 1997). Furthermore, there is ample evidence to conclude that consistent emotional abuse and mistreatment by leaders and managers are associated with a range of detrimental outcomes on both an individual and an organizational level (see Hogh et al., 2011; Tepper, 2007). In the following we will review the literature on supervisors who abuse and bully their subordinates, regarding both the ­concepts in use and the antecedents and outcomes studied to date. In doing so, this chapter sides with Tepper (2007), who claims that abusive supervision is a significant social problem that warrants continued scholarly interest, as well as with Burke (2006), who claims that the “dark side” of leadership needs to be better explored in order to create a more accurate view of what supervisors, leaders, and ­managers actually do to their ­subordinates and to the organizations they are paid to promote.





7.2 Concepts in Use


Research on abuse and mistreatment at work is a rather new animal in the fauna of ­organizational studies. In 1976, an American psychiatrist, Carroll M. Brodsky, published the seminal book The Harassed Worker, calling attention to the systematic mistreatment and emotional abuse of employees on all organizational levels by their superiors, and in some cases by their colleagues (Brodsky, 1976). After analyzing some 1000 cases in which employees had been injured, mistreated, or crippled while at work, Brodsky showed that such mistreatment was often carried out by psychological rather than physical means, involving subtle and discrete actions, yet with traumatic and devastating outcomes when repeatedly and systematically directed at someone who felt unable to retaliate in kind or to defend themselves. However, the book did not seem to gain much attention at the time of first publication, despite being an outstandingly valuable academic contribution that has gone on to become highly appreciated in the years since. In the mid 1980s, unaware of this book, the Swedish German-born psychiatrist and organizational psychologist Heinz Leymann came across a similar phenomenon in Swedish working life (see Leymann, 1990, 1996), and described how employees were victimized at work by superiors or colleagues, being exposed to systematic and long-term hostility and psychological abuse for no apparent reason. In parallel with this, sexual harassment of female employees received increasing attention, particularly in the USA (Gutek, 1985; Pryor & Fitzgerald, 2003). From this base, research on nonsexual bullying and emotional abuse at work spread quickly during the 1990s to many countries in Europe (see Einarsen et al., 2003 for an overview), with some few but important contributions from the USA (e.g. Ashforth, 1994, 1997; Keashly, 1998; Keashly et al., 1994). Since the turn of the millennium, research on the mistreatment and emotional abuse of employees has exploded on both sides of the Atlantic (see Einarsen et al., 2011; Keashly & Jagatic; 2011; Schyns & Hansbrough, 2010; Tepper, 2007 for reviews and an overview).

Yet the explosion of research since 2000 has come with a proliferation and plethora of concepts, terms, and definitions, especially in the USA (see Keashly & Jagatic, 2011), examples being “abusive supervision” (Tepper, 2000), “incivility” (Cortina et al., 2001), “­undermining” (Duffy et al., 2002), “petty tyranny” (Ashforth, 1994), “victimization” (Acquino & Bradfield, 2000), “bullying” (Namie & Namie, 2000), and “workplace harassment” (Bowling & Beehr, 2006). A wide range of concepts has been introduced to capture instances of leader failure, including the abuse of subordinates (see Table 7.1 for an overview). However, the most consistently used terms for the systematic and ongoing exposure to abuse and hostility from one’s supervisor are “abusive supervision” (Tepper, 2000, 2007) and “workplace bullying” (Einarsen, 1999, 2000; Hoel et al., 1999), the latter also called “mobbing” in some European countries (Leymann, 1996; Zapf, 1999).

Table 7.1 Examples of concepts and labels introduced to describe leader failure.

Concept Reference

Authoritarian leaders Adorno et al. (1950)

Machiavellian leaders Christie & Geis (1970)

Intolerable bosses Lombardo & McCall (1984)

Personalized charismatic leadership House & Howell, 1992

The dark side of charisma Hogan et al. (1990)

The dark side of leadership Conger (1990)

Crazy bosses Bing (1992)

Petty tyranny Ashforth (1994)

Flawed leadership Hogan (1994)

Derailed leadership Shackleton (1995)

Brutal bosses Hornstein (1996)

Abusive supervision Tepper (2000)

Impaired managers Lubit (2004)

Bad leaders Kellerman (2004)

Poor leadership Kelloway et al. (2004)

Psychopaths Furnham & Taylor (2004)

Toxic leaders Lipman-Blumen (2005)

Laissez-faire leadership Skogstad et al. (2007)

Destructive leadership Einarsen et al. (2007)

Tepper (2000) defines “abusive supervision” as the extent to which subordinates perceive supervisors as engaging in the sustained display of hostile verbal and nonverbal behaviors while at work, excluding physical abuse. “Bullying at work” has likewise been defined as repeated actions and practices directed against one or more workers, which are unwanted by the targets, and which may be carried out deliberately or unconsciously, but clearly cause humiliation, offence, and distress, and may interfere with work performance and/or cause an unpleasant working environment (Einarsen & Raknes, 1997). Hence both concepts relate to persistent exposure to hostile behaviors of a primarily psychological nature. According to Lutgen-Sandvik et al. (2007), workplace bullying is “a type of interpersonal aggression at work that goes beyond simple incivility and is marked by the characteristic features of frequency, intensity, duration and power imbalance” (p. 837).

Examples of the behaviors involved are persistent verbal insults or offensive remarks, persistent unfair criticism, illegitimate changes in a subordinate’s work tasks (e.g. undue work pressure), and in some few cases threats of physical abuse (Einarsen, 2000). A particularly stressful behavior is social exclusion and isolation; that is, giving someone the “silent treatment,” or as it is sometimes called, “sending someone to Coventry/Siberia” (­Williams, 2001). These behaviors are used with the aim or at least the effect of persistently humiliating, intimidating, frightening, or punishing the subordinate. Many of the unpleasant leader strategies described in studies on workplace bullying may be relatively common in the workplace (Leymann, 1996), yet when frequently and persistently directed towards the same subordinate they can be considered an extreme social source of stress (Zapf et al., 1996), particularly when there is an imbalance in the power relationship between the two parties (Einarsen et al., 2011; Keashly, 1998; Olweus, 1978), as is the case per definition in the concept of abusive supervision. The latter is probably why workplace-bullying research in practice is mainly about the persistent hostility shown by supervisors to their immediate subordinates. Research has consistently shown that supervisors are much more often the source of bullying than are colleagues, and particularly so in Anglo-American cultures (see Zapf et al., 2011). Furthermore, experiencing bullying or emotional abuse by a supervisor is generally found to be more harmful and stressful to subordinates than being attacked by one’s colleagues. Last, but not least, an important and consistent empirical finding has been that many employees are attacked by both their supervisors and one or more colleagues (see for example Einarsen & Skogstad, 1996), a fact that may be missed if one focuses solely on the abuse conducted by superiors (see Tepper, 2007 for arguments for a more narrow approach). Hence empirical findings from research on workplace bullying seem to indicate that some supervisors not only consistently behave in a hostile manner towards one or more subordinates but also lead or allow other subordinates to join in this victimization process.





7.2.1 Intentionality


An issue of constant debate in the field of bullying and abusive supervision has centered on intent. While some authors, particularly those anchored in aggression theory, see intent to cause harm on the part of the perpetrator as a key feature of the definition, others argue against including intent as a definitional characteristic (see also Keashly & Jagatic, 2011). Including intent in the definition of supervisor bullying and abuse may distinguish it from more accidental unpleasant behaviors such as incivility at work. It would also exclude single episodes of thoughtlessness or instances of fairly legitimate behaviors (see Einarsen et al., 2011). Theoretically, aggression research has generally built on the assumption that one must distinguish between accidental and intended harm (see also Keashly & Jagatic, 2011). Yet in most cases it is impossible to verify the presence of intent in cases of supervisory bullying (Hoel et al., 1999), as the only judge in this matter would be the alleged perpetrator, granting him or her a definitional veto (see also Buss, 1961). Tepper (2000) argues that some instances of abusive supervision may be more about indifference than about hostility, as has been found in studies on laissez-faire leadership, which has been shown to be ­associated with a range of negative consequences for followers and leader effectiveness (Hinkin & Schriesheim, 2008; Judge & Piccolo, 2004; Skogstad et al., 2007b).

The question would also be: intent in relation to what? (1) Intent to act in each single instance? (2) Intent to be repeated and systematic? (3) Intent to harm and victimize the target? (Einarsen et al., 2011). An arrogant and self-aggrandizing supervisor might unwittingly humiliate or ridicule others as a byproduct of his or her demonstration of superiority without having any particular intent to act as a bully, or even being aware of his/her own behavior. In one of the classic works on the psychology of aggression, Buss (1961) argues that including intent in the definition of aggression is both “awkward and unnecessary” as, among other things, “intent is a private event that may or may not be capable of verbalization, may or may not be accurately reflected in a verbal statement” (p. 2).

Following this line of reasoning, intent is problematic from both a theoretical and an applied perspective. Yet Keashly & Jagatic (2011) argue that the issue of intent is moot at the methodological level, as very few studies on aggression and abuse actually measure intent, or even perceived intent. An example of this is the study by Schat and colleagues (2006) on supervisory aggression, in which they theoretically define aggression as “behavior intended to cause harm,” but do not include intent in the actual measurement, where participants or subjects were only asked if different kinds of aggressive behavior were enacted at the workplace and who the actor was. The intent of the actor or the perceived intent by the target remained unknown. Hence it is, in our opinion, problematic and unnecessary to include intent as a criterion when defining leader bullying and abuse.





7.2.2 The need for a wider concept of destructive behavior


The concepts of workplace bullying and abusive supervision focus our attention on leaders and supervisors who intimidate followers, belittle or humiliate them in private or public, or expose them to aggressive nonverbal gestures (Aryee et al., 2007; Ashforth, 1994; Tepper, 2000). Yet leaders may also behave destructively in a way that primarily affects the organization (Einarsen et al., 2007; Kellerman, 2004; Lipman-Blumen, 2005; Vredenburgh & Brender, 1998). Leaders may be corrupt—working towards personal rather than organizational goals—hamper the execution of tasks, reduce the quality of work performed in their department, reduce the efficiency of subordinates, or hamper relationships with customers and clients (Padilla et al., 2007). Hence there is clearly also an organizational dimension in destructive leadership, which may complement our focus on bullying and abusive supervision. Based on such reasoning, Einarsen et al. (2007, 2010) describe two forms of abusive supervision, depending on whether the leader or supervisor simultaneously portrays destructive behavior against the organization.

Tyrannical leadership behavior is manifested when a leader who abuses and bullies subordinates otherwise behaves in accordance with the legitimate goals, tasks, and strategies of the organization, possibly even being a superior strategist or being high-performing in terms of technical skills or task-related efficiency. In such cases, upper management may see an efficient focus on task completion by the leader, while subordinates experience systematic abuse and bullying (Einarsen et al., 2007). Leaders who behave destructively towards subordinates may not necessarily be destructive in other interpersonal relationships, be they with customers, business partners, or upper management. Ma et al. (2004) define this phenomenon as “the paradox of managerial tyranny,” arguing that tyrannical leadership may lead to extraordinary performance, even when subordinates suffer, at least in the short run.

Leaders who demonstrate derailed leadership behavior mistreat both subordinates and the organization. Such leaders may bully, humiliate, manipulate, and deceive subordinates (see for example Ashforth, 1994; Lombardo & McCall, 1984) while at the same time conducting antiorganizational behaviors such as showing undue absenteeism, withdrawing from work, shirking, committing fraud, or stealing resources (be they financial, time, or material) (Einarsen et al., 2007; Lubit, 2004; McCall & Lombardo, 1983). An example would be a leader who uses his or her charismatic qualities for personal gains while exploiting both followers and his or her employer (Conger, 1990). Such leader characteristics are also prominent in descriptions of pseudotransformational leadership and narcissistic ­leadership (see Bass & Riggio, 2006).





7.3 Consequences of Exposure to Bullying and Abusive Supervision


In this rather new field of scientific enquiry, studies on outcomes are by far the most prevalent, as compared to antecedents and mechanisms, particularly in relation to outcomes on those targeted. These studies show that the costs of abusive and bullying leadership behavior are high on both an individual and an organizational level (see also Einarsen et al., 2011; Tepper, 2000). Being exposed to bullying and emotional abuse by one’s superiors has been classified as one of the most significant sources of stress at work (Zapf, 1999); it has even been claimed that it is a more crippling and devastating problem for employees than all other work-related stress put together (Wilson, 1991). Hence outcomes on an individual level have been studied both from a stress-theoretical perspective and from a trauma perspective (see Einarsen & Mikkelsen, 2003; Hogh et al., 2011 for reviews). Abusive and bullying leadership has also been related to organizational cost, both directly in terms of monetary cost (see Hoel et al., 2011) and indirectly in terms of altering the behaviors and attitudes of subordinates (Rafferty & Restubog, 2011). In this section we will present an overview of empirical research findings from studies focusing on either individual or organizational outcomes of abusive and bullying leadership behavior, as well as some theoretical frameworks that may help to explain these findings.





7.3.1 Individual consequences


Bullying behaviors by leaders have consistently been found to have considerable negative effects on valued individual and organizational outcomes, such as lower levels of job satisfaction and commitment (Duffy et al., 2002), increased levels of work–family conflict (Tepper, 2000), and higher levels of stress-related problems (Duffy et al., 2002; Tepper, 2000). A particularly substantial body of research has shown strong associations between exposure to workplace bullying and serious emotional, psychosomatic, and psychiatric problems (Einarsen & Mikkelsen, 2003, Hogh et al., 2011; Vie et al., 2011). According to Zapf et al. (1996), targets of bullying generally report lower levels of well-being and job satisfaction compared to other employees. In addition, low self-esteem, nervousness, and insecurity are common symptoms in this group (Leymann, 1990). Evidence has also been provided, employing longitudinal designs, for links between exposure to bullying at work and subsequent elevated risks of depression (Nielsen et al., 2012), cardiovascular disease (Kiwimaki et al., 2003), and sickness absence (Ortega et al., 2009). Evidence has even been provided for a link between exposure to abuse and subsequent physical reactions in the form of changed activity in the autonomous nerve system and the hormonal system, a finding that may help explain how an abusive supervisor can “get under the skin” of employees (see Hogh et al., 2011 for a review and discussion). Based on work with hundreds of cases, Carroll M. Brodsky (1976) identified three reaction patterns among individuals exposed to bullying behavior: (1) some targets reacted with vague physical symptoms such as loss of strength, chronic fatigue, pains, and various aches; (2) others reacted with symptoms related to depression, such as lack of self-esteem and sleeplessness; and (3) a third group portrayed various psychological symptoms, such as hostility, hypersensitivity, loss of memory, feelings of victimization, nervousness, and social withdrawal.

Moreover, it has been argued that victims of long-term bullying may even suffer from symptoms of posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) (Leymann & Gustafsson, 1996). PTSD includes a variety of chronic emotional, behavioral, cognitive, and physiological symptoms, such as anxiety, irritability, hostility, emotional instability, social avoidance and distrust, guilt, flashbacks, nightmares, impaired concentration, and extreme physiological reactions in the presence of trauma-related stimuli. This notion has been supported cross-nationally by studies undertaken in Italy (Balducci et al., 2009), Denmark (Mikkelsen & Einarsen, 2002), and Norway (Glasø et al., 2009b). It may seem strange that people develop symptoms of PTSD when exposed to interpersonal aggression that is often indirect or solely verbal in nature, yet the link between ongoing social abuse and such symptoms seems to be established.





7.3.2 Explaining individual consequences


According to Janoff-Bulmann (1992), events are traumatic to the extent that they challenge our most basic cognitive assumptions—namely, our beliefs about: (1) the world as benevolent; (2) the world as meaningful; and (3) the self as worthy. When exposed to highly distressing events, such as abusive and bullying leadership, often in combination with collegial aggression or ostracism, these assumptions may be shattered, resulting in an intense cognitive-emotional crisis. Some victims may have difficulty in resolving this psychological crisis, and remain in a chronic state of cognitive confusion and anxiety that is characteristic of PTSD (Janoff-Bulmann, 1992). The notion of a positive link between exposure to abusive and bullying leadership, on the one hand, and the experience of seeing one’s basic assumptions of the world shattered, on the other, has been empirically supported, yet only with cross-sectional data. A study of 118 Danish targets (Mikkelsen & Einarsen, 2002) showed that the targets considered themselves to be less capable, less worthy, and even less lucky compared to a control group. In addition, the targets of bullying perceived the world as less benevolent, controllable, and just, and considered other people to be less supportive and caring. Likewise, Glasø et al. (2009b), who compared 72 targets to a matched control group in Norway, reported significant differences between targets and nontargets regarding their basic assumptions. In this study in particular, the targets’ assumptions about the “world as benevolent” were severely undermined.

The concept of “ostracism” (Williams, 2001) may also help explain the reactions to and the negative consequences of being bullied at work, as systematic exclusion and rejection from a social group (i.e. ostracism) appears to be a common feature of bullying (Beale & Hoel, 2010). According to Williams (2001), exposure to ostracism, such as by one’s immediate superior, threatens four basic social needs: (1) the need for safety and belonging; (2) the need to receive the care and love of others; (3) the need to be in control of one’s own life and of one’s interactions with others; and (4) the need for a meaningful existence. Being left in a situation where one’s social needs are seriously in jeopardy will obviously lead to intense distress, and may have harmful effects on one’s health (Glasø et al., 2009a).

Most studies in this field, and particularly in the case of workplace bullying, have investigated the direct relationship between exposure to abuse by superiors and individual outcomes. Although these linear associations are strong, there are certainly other factors which may also moderate or mediate such relationships. Building on stress theory, where individual perception and appraisal of potential stressors are important for both the immediate and the long-term reaction of subordinates, it has been proposed by many that one should look at how individual differences might shape and explain how a stressful leader can affect the health and well-being of their subordinates. An explanation of the relationship between bullying and health may therefore be sought in personality dispositions such as “sense of coherence” (SOC) (Antonovsky, 1987; Nielsen et al., 2008). SOC is described as a global orientation to view the world and the individual’s environment as comprehensible, manageable, and meaningful. It is argued that people with a strong SOC will be more resistant to stress and experience better health than people with low SOC. Alternative individual characteristics, such as negative affectivity (NA) (Watson & Clark, 1984), may play a similar role. Individuals high on NA typically focus on the ­problematic aspects of life and tend to have a negative view of themselves, of other people, and of the world in general. Accordingly, high levels of NA were found among targets of bullying in studies undertaken in Finland (Vartia, 1996), Germany (Zapf, 1999), and Norway (Glasø et al., 2007). Yet studies have also shown that such dispositions mainly play a role under conditions of low and moderate exposure to abuse (see Nielsen et al., 2008). When intense enough, personality does not seem to guard subordinates against the effect of the abusive behavior of their superior.

Another explanation may lie in the coping strategies undertaken by subordinates when facing an abusive superior. In a study testing the interactive effects of abusive supervision, ingratiation tactics, and positive affect (PA) on job tension, emotional exhaustion, and turnover intentions, Harvey et al. (2007) found that employees’ use of ingratiation combined with PA neutralized the adverse effects of abusive leadership on outcomes. In another study among 204 employees of an automotive company, Harris et al. (2007) investigated abusive leadership behavior as a predictor of performance, with the meaning of the work as a potential moderator of this relationship. The results showed that abusive leadership was negatively related to performance, yet the meaning of the work moderated the relationship. Hence, both situational and personal factors may moderate the effect of an abusive leader on the health and performance of subordinates. Much work still needs to be done in this area.





7.3.3 Organizational consequences following individual ones


By far the greatest part of the empirical research on the consequences of bullying and abusive supervision has focused on individual-level outcomes. We know far less about how such leadership behavior might affect an organization. Yet some of these individual-level consequences could easily aggregate to form serious organizational-level effects, such as increased turnover intentions and elevated levels of absenteeism (see also Hoel et al., 2011; Tepper, 2000; Tepper et al., 2006). Organizational outcomes may also arise indirectly from observers who react negatively when witnessing bullying. Quine (2001), for instance, has shown that nonbullied employees who have witnessed bullying report significantly more stress reactions than those who have not witnessed it. As an extension of this, bullying and abusive supervision have also been related to outcomes that more directly hurt the organization, such as lowered task performance, counterproductive work behavior (CWB), and lowered organizational citizenship behavior (OCB). Performance, CWB, and OCB are interesting outcomes because of their visible and invisible characteristics, their potential for positive and negative organizational outcomes, and the great extent of control subordinates might exert over them. While task performance is about how and to what extent one performs one’s basic task, how one communicates and interacts with one’s peers and superiors, how much effort one puts into one’s job, and how one maintains one’s discipline (see Sackett, 2002), OCB has been defined as “individual behavior that is discretionary, not directly or explicitly recognized by the formal reward system and that in the aggregate promotes the effective functioning of the organization” (Organ, 1988, p. 4). Reduced levels of task performance and OCB make an important contribution to both individual-level and organizational-level outcomes (Podsakoff et al., 2009). CWB is defined as when employees willfully commit acts that may harm organizations or the people within them (Spector & Fox, 2005), including theft (e.g. Greenberg, 1990), sabotage (e.g. Ambrose et al., 2002), workplace violence and aggression (e.g. Barling et al., 2009; Kelloway et al., 2006), and revenge (Bies & Tripp, 2005). Furthermore, CWB may include relatively minor behaviors such as spreading rumors, inappropriate Internet use, and littering. A study by Tepper et al. (2008) showed abusive supervision to be positively related to organization deviance in subordinates in the form of theft, sabotage, lateness, and shirking.





7.3.4 Explaining how individual reactions may lead to organizational outcomes


According to social-exchange theory, individuals will reciprocate the treatment they receive from others; this applies to both positive and negative behavior (Molm, 1988). Exposure to abusive and bullying leadership behavior is thus likely to result in some adverse actions from the victim, according to the negative-reciprocity norm (see also Ashforth, 1997; Thau et al., 2009). However, due to hierarchical factors and power ­differences between superior and subordinates, the likelihood that subordinates will retaliate directly against their bullying immediate superior is relatively small (Zellars et al., 2002). One way in which subordinates can respond to the abuse from their ­superiors, and restore a sense of autonomy and control, with little or no risk of negative consequences, is by withdrawing OCBs or lowering their efforts, and thus their level of performance. Hence, the hidden costs of abusive and bullying leadership behavior for the organization may be various and severe, as employees may respond to such exposure by withholding voluntary contributions that benefit both the supervisor and the ­organization. This notion is in line with Cropanzano & Mitchell (2005), who claim that different kinds of exchange relationships in organizations have important implications for employee behavior and, ultimately, organizational effectiveness. In line with this, two studies have reported a strong association between exposure to abusive leadership and low levels of OCB (Aryee et al., 2007; Zellars et al., 2002). In line with this, a two-wave study by Tepper et al. (2007) showed how earlier exposure to abusive supervision was related to subordinates’ increased use of so-called regulatory tactics; that is, avoiding contact with one’s superior, censoring and distorting one’s messages towards the superior, and stretching the truth to avoid problems. In a Chinese context, a study which sampled 361 employees from 17 Chinese state-owned enterprises showed that leadership justice was negatively related to employee silence and organizational retaliatory behavior (Duan et al., 2010), reactions which in the long run may affect the performance of the whole work group.

In the UK, Rayner (1997) showed that one out of four targets of bullying reported that they had left a previous job due to their experiences of mistreatment. Targets may then see leaving the organization as a coping strategy, since this act removes them from the source of the problem (see also Berthelsen et al., 2011). Some targets may quit in despair or due to sickness resulting from prolonged strain and stress. In other cases, victims may be ­ostracized or expelled from the organization against their will (Hoel et al., 2003).





7.3.5 Organizational costs


Although Hoel & Cooper (2000) found only relatively weak correlations between bullying and absenteeism in a study in the UK, they revealed that victims of bullying took on average 7 days more sick leave per year than those who neither were bullied nor had witnessed bullying taking place. Estimated on the basis of a bullying rate of 10%, this would account for a total of 18 million lost working days annually in the UK alone. The weak correlations found between absenteeism and bullying may be caused by a number of factors, including people’s tendency to underreport their own absence and the possibility that targets might turn up for work because of pressure to attend, not wanting to be associated with malingering or disloyalty, or, not least, not wanting to lose their job (Hoel et al., 2003). Moreover, labor-market considerations, lack of mobility, and difficulties in finding new employment might prevent targets from leaving their current positions (Tepper 2000).

Organizational productivity is likely to decrease as a result of bullying leadership, but this particular outcome is difficult to measure as it is likely to be the function of a number of factors, including behavioral responses to bullying in terms of withdrawal and loss of concentration, reduced job satisfaction, increasing health problems, and indirect effects of absenteeism and turnover (Hoel et al., 2003). In a British study, targets of bullying rated their own performance as around 85% of normal capacity, whereas people who had no contact with bullying incidents reported a 92% capacity (Hoel et al., 2001). According to Rayner et al. (2002), creativity and innovation are other aspects of productivity that are likely to be negatively affected by bullying. A Norwegian study in restaurants showed that those restaurants in which apprentices reported a high exposure to abusive supervision were rated as far less creative and innovative by external raters than were those where no or little bullying existed (Mathisen et al., 2008). It could be argued that as creativity naturally involves risk-taking, this might be seen as dangerous strategy for targets of bullying, as a higher internal profile would make them even more vulnerable to being bullied. Based on a meta-analysis of bullying research, Sheehan et al. (2001) calculated a bullying cost in the order of AUS$0.6–3.6 million per annum for an Australian business with 1000 employees. Similarly, at a national level, Hoel et al. (2003) concluded that costs related to absence and replacement due to bullying alone might account for close to GBP£2 billion annually.

Leymann (1990) estimated the annual costs to be between USD$30 000 and 100 000 per case, assuming that bullying and abusive supervision can go on for years, with the employee getting paid while often being unable to work due to stress in combination with long periods of sick leave, or sometimes even not being assigned proper tasks and responsibilities by their abusive supervisor, who tends to see them as totally incompetent. Thus, bullying in the workplace represents a considerable cost to employees, employers, and society (Di Martino et al., 2003). In sum, abusive and bullying leadership behaviors are detrimental to both employees and the organization. Nonetheless, more empirical research still exists on individual-level than on organizational-level outcomes.





7.4 Antecedents of Bullying and Abusive Supervision


Compared to the rather extensive documentation on the consequences of abusive and ­bullying leadership, research on antecedents of such leadership practices is rather meager (Tepper, 2007). Quite a few studies exist, however, in which the antecedents of and risk factors for becoming a target of bullying and abusive supervision are examined (see Salin & Hoel, 2011 for a review). Obviously, there are limitations concerning knowledge about supervisor misbehavior produced by relying solely on accounts provided by targets. Yet these studies show that abusive leadership and workplace bullying seem to flourish at all organizational levels, affecting males as well as females, and younger as well as older employees. They also seem to prevail in all kinds of work sectors and organizational contexts (see Notelaers et al., 2011). Furthermore, work environments with elevated levels of reported supervisory abuse and bullying seem to be characterized by high levels of stress, particularly being plagued with role-stressors (Bowling and Behr, 2006; Hauge et al., 2007). In this section we will review various empirical studies that have investigated antecedents of bullying and abusive supervision, starting with the most prolific perspective, that of individual characteristics of the leader.





7.4.1 Personality traits—the bad-man approach


Over the last 50 years, research and writings on destructive forms of leadership have strongly emphasized personality traits, exemplified by Adorno et al.’s (1950) seminal study on the authoritarian personality. The 1980s’ and 1990s’ focus on charismatic leadership also embraced the dark sides of leadership, describing and studying the phenomenon of personalized charismatic leadership (O’Connor et al., 1995; House & Howell, 1992). Although these studies often focused on how such leaders might lead an organization astray based on their personal needs, such leaders were also described as portraying abusive behaviors against followers. Based on a literature review, House & Howell (1992) substantiate the claim that such leaders differ from constructive leaders in their excessive need for power, high levels of Machiavellianism, and authoritarianism, as well as in having an external locus of control combined with low self-esteem. In their updated review of the leader-trait paradigm, Judge et al. (2009) present a comparable list of dark traits, which includes narcissism, hubris, social dominance, and Machiavellianism.

The personality construct that has probably most often been linked to unethical and bad leadership is narcissism, which has been defined by numerous characteristics, such as arrogance, feelings of inferiority, an insatiable need for recognition and superiority, hypersensitivity and anger, lack of empathy, amorality, irrationality and inflexibility, and paranoia (Rosenthal & Pittinsky, 2006). In line with this, Goldman (2006) presented a case study describing a highly narcissistic leader according to the diagnostic criteria of DSM IV-TR. However, few studies have systematically studied the relationship between narcissism and indicators of actual misbehavior while employing data from a working population. An exception to this is Blair et al. (2008), who found that leader self-ratings of narcissism were negatively related to supervisor ratings of those leaders’ interpersonal performance and integrity, and that those relationships were insignificant when using subordinate ratings. A plausible explanation for these insignificant results is, according to the authors, that the managers selected the subordinates who were asked to complete the evaluation form. Hence it is quite possible that they chose subordinates who had a positive attitude towards them and thus rated them in a positive direction. In line with this, Kiazad et al. (2010) found that supervisor-rated Machiavellianism was positively associated with subordinates’ perception of abusive supervision. However, there is a need to further scrutinize the relationship between leader narcissism—as well as Machiavellianism—and abusive supervision. As demonstrated in some studies (e.g. Judge et al., 2006), such relationships will vary depending on who is evaluating the personality factors and who is evaluating leader behavior. Because leader assessments have been shown to vary significantly between ­subordinate, supervisor, peer, and self-ratings (see for example Conway & Huffcutt, 1997), which may be a function of those parties having different experiences with the focal leader, different groups of raters should be systematically employed in future studies.

Interestingly, to our knowledge there are no explicit studies on relationships between the Big Five-factor model of personality (McCrae & Costa, 1987), the currently most widely used model of personality of the universal commoner within the normal range, and acts of bullying and abusive supervision. As CWB to a high degree overlaps with definitions of abusive supervision (Tepper, 2000) and workplace bullying (Einarsen et al., 2011)—with the exception that CWB also includes subordinates who may be destructive—we will, in the following, present some studies on the relationship between Big Five factors and CWB. In a recent metastudy on relationships between personality factors and ­organizational deviance (OD) and interpersonal deviance (ID), which reflect the two basic forms of CWB (see for example Berry et al., 2007), relatively strong relationships were found between agreeableness, conscientiousness, and emotional stability and the two behavioral outcomes (ρ between −.23 and −.46), with the strongest relationships being between agreeableness and ID (ρ = −.46) and between conscientiousness and OD (ρ = −.42). Relationships ­between extroversion and openness and the two behavioral outcomes were much weaker (ρ between −.02 and −.09). It may thus be the case that leaders systematically scoring low on emotional stability and on agreeableness and conscientiousness are prone to manifest themselves as destructive leaders. However, Big Five factors as predictors of ­bullying and abusive forms of leadership will have to be studied explicitly to confirm such relationships.

A concept closely related to emotional stability is that of NA, including negative emotions such as anxiety, depression, and hostility. According to Aquino & Thau (2009), NA has shown the most consistent relationship with various victimization measures (see for example Aquino & Bradfield, 2000; Glasø et al., 2007). In line with this, Dalal’s (2005) meta-analysis found a strong association (ρ = .41) between NA and CWB, a result which corresponds with a metastudy by Hershcovis et al. (2007) showing systematic relationships between NA and interpersonal targeted aggression (r (corrected) = .29) and organizational targeted aggression (r (corrected) = .28). Hershcovis et al. (2007) found even stronger relationships between the related concept of trait anger and interpersonal targeted aggression (r (corrected) = .43). In line with this, trait anger has also been found to be a strong predictor of aggression directed towards followers (Innes et al., 2008). Likewise, trait anger has been shown to be associated with being a perpetrator of workplace bullying (Matthiesen & Einarsen, 2007). In a study by Kant et al. (2011), leader self-rated trait anger was associated with follower-rated abusive supervision both of the entire workgroup and within dyads. To conclude, leaders scoring high on NA and trait anger are, probably, also prone to manifest abusive leadership behaviors. In his much-cited review on abusive supervision—including proposals for future research—Tepper (2007) proposes the personality variables of narcissism, agreeableness, and emotional stability (neuroticism) to be promising antecedents of abusive supervision. We propose conscientiousness, NA, and trait anger be added to this list (see also Zapf & Einarsen, 2011 for a theoretical account of such possible antecedents of bullying and abusive supervision).

Theoretically, leader traits may be related to bullying and abusive behavior in many ways (see also Wang et al., 2010). Leaders with certain traits may first of all generally portray behavior that subordinates find abusive. Yet indirect relationships may also exist between traits and such leadership behavior, in that certain traits in the leader may result in increased experience of stress at work, which again may result in more aggressive outbursts. Individual characteristics such as NA, trait anxiety, and attribution styles may for example influence the superior’s perception of organizational justice, a highly likely antecedent of abusive supervision, which we will return to later. For example, Mathisen et al. (2011) found leader agreeableness to moderate the relationship between superior-reported stress and follower-reported bullying, while Aryee and colleagues (2007) found that the relationship between a superior’s experience of interactional injustice and followers’ experiences of abusive supervision was moderated by the superior’s authoritarianism as rated by immediate subordinates. Further, Tepper et al. (2006) found that superior depression mediated the relationship between a supervisor’s procedural justice and subordinate perceptions of abusive supervision. Leaders with certain traits may also be more frequently involved in escalated interpersonal conflicts with their subordinates (see also Glasø et al., 2011), which again may escalate into angry outbursts or ongoing bullying (see also the dual-process model developed by Wang et al., 2010).





7.4.2 Individual characteristics—the bad-thought approach


In addition to personality traits, systematic and enduring cognitive patterns—such as how leaders attribute or explain to themselves why things happen and why they or other people behave as they do—may play an important role as antecedents of leader bullying and abusive supervision. For example, Martinko et al. (2002) have stated that attribution style is one of the most promising individual difference variables when studying CWB in general. Douglas & Martinko (2001) have shown that a hostile attribution style (HAS), where individuals attribute failures to external stable and intentional causes, is associated with self-reported aggression in the workplace. As an extension of this, employing a multisource design, Goh (2006) showed that HAS moderated the relationship between organizational stressors and CWB. Individuals high on HAS engaged in more CWB when stressors were high, whereas individuals low on HAS engaged in less CWB. Likewise, Hoobler & Brass (2006) showed that the relationship between superiors’ experiences of psychological contract violations and subordinates’ perceptions of abusive supervision was moderated by supervisors’ hostile attribution bias.

In their causal-reasoning theory (CRT) of CWB, Martinko and colleagues (2002) substantiate the influence of such cognitive processes, emphasizing (1) how individuals evaluate the quality of their outcomes (e.g. perceived fairness and justice) and (2) how beliefs about the causes of their outcomes (e.g. attributions) influence behavior and emotions. For example, if a leader attributes a follower’s poor performance as intentionally undermining the leader’s position, the leader may retaliate using highly aggressive means. Hence CRT proposes a two-stage process: first a type of experienced disequilibrium between oneself and the environment, and second the attribution processes, wherein one explains how the disequilibrium came about. If the leader decides that the reason for the highly dissatisfactory situation was the subordinate, aggression may result, even as an intended and planned behavior (see also Wang et al., 2010). A parallel approach is found in ­Spector & Fox’s (2005) stressor-emotion model of CWB, which shows how the individual is exposed to the environment through his or her cognitions. The individual first appraises the environment and make attributions for the causes of events and the intentions of actions taken by others, second reacts emotionally to what they see and think, and finally engages in behavior in response, which may be either constructive or counterproductive. In accordance with this line of reasoning, Ferris et al. (1995) emphasize that attributions about the other party’s intentions, be it the leader or the follower, will be strongly related to the quality of the leader–follower relationship. The idea here is that the locus of causality in a supervisor (as well as a follower) predicts his or her affective reactions. While internal attributions for negative events will probably result in negative emotions, including self-deprecation and helplessness, external attributions are related to negative affective reactions, which may be directed towards subordinates—for example, through revenge—particularly when it is felt that there are no mitigating circumstances and when actions are perceived as intentional (Martinko et al., 2002). Although studies have substantiated the idea that individuals with an external locus of control are more likely to show CWB than those with an internal locus of control (Martinko et al., 2002), this notion must to be tested in relation to abusive supervision. Hence we strongly propose that attributions and attributional style should be looked into further in the search for the roots of bullying behaviors and abusive forms of supervision.





7.4.3 Situational and contextual factors and the displacement of aggression


However, restricting our presentation to relationships between individual factors and abusive supervision makes for too limited a scope. The cognitions pointed at in the last subsection may in fact be rooted in actual situational and contextual factors. Certain traits or cognitive processes may also be relevant only when faced with actual stressors in the job situation and the social environment. In the rest of this section we will therefore look at some possible explanations that involve situational and contextual factors. Most studies so far have focused on stress and perceptions of injustice that result in abusive behaviors through a process of displacement of aggression. Studies also exist on distal contextual factors, even as far removed as the financial and climatic conditions of a nation. Yet we will start with the most proximal factor, the subordinate.





7.4.3.1 Subordinates as triggers of bullying and abusive supervision


One of the most apparent situational factors that might affect the perceptions and behaviors of leaders is subordinates. Subordinates may act as both direct and indirect antecedents of bullying and abusive behavior from a leader. According to a social-interactionist perspective, a stressful environment can affect aggression indirectly through its effect on subordinates’ behavior (Felson & Tedeschi, 1993a,b). General stress may cause some employees to violate workplace norms and to perform their work less competently than others. Employees may thus have a tendency to become targets of their superior’s abuse because stressors in their jobs generate affective and behavioral reactions in them that provoke bullying and abuse by the superior (e.g. Felson & Tedeschi, 1993a,b), be it as a hot-blooded reaction or as cold-blooded planned and strategic behavior (see also Fox & Spector, 2010 on instrumental CWB). Accordingly, Aquino & Thau (2009) propose that organizational members perceived as hostile, demanding, and interpersonally difficult will be more probable targets of aggression and victimization.

In a recent study, Tepper et al. (2011) showed that the displacement of aggression may also be related to leader–follower dissimilarities, not just stress and injustice, as will be pinpointed later. Hence leader-perceived deep-level dissimilarity with a subordinate is found to be related to follower-perceived abusive supervision through supervisor perceptions of relationship conflict with the follower. The relationship conflict showed, however, to be a mediator only when followers were perceived to have a low performance. The authors argue that abusive supervision may be a result of moral exclusion and absence of fair treatment by the superior, when he/she experiences the subordinate as different in terms of issues such as their outlook and values. This study illustrates that various factors related to the leader–follower relationship and follower behavior will influence the prevalence of abusive supervision, but more research is definitely needed in this vein.

Yet when moving in this direction, the complexity of interacting variables may be quite large, as illustrated by a study by Tepper et al. (2006) showing that leader-experienced procedural injustice was systematically related to subordinate perception of abusive supervision, through the mediation of the superior’s depression, and that this mediation only emerged when subordinates scored high on NA. The authors argue that leaders exposed to procedural injustice experience depression, which results in their behaving in an abusive way against subordinates perceived as being vulnerable and provocative, as indicated by a high score on NA. Followers may thus take the role of a provocative victim, triggering aggressive responses from their superior, at least under certain situational conditions. In line with this, Aquino & Bradfield (2000) and Aquino et al. (1999) found that employees who scored high on NA more frequently perceived themselves as victims of bullying and abuse.

In a related study, Aquino & Byron (2002) found support for the hypothesis that dominant behavior would show a curvilinear relationship with victimization from leader abuse, indicating that employees low on dominance would be experienced as weak and exploitable and employees high on dominance would break social norms and therefore be more easily exposed to retaliation and abuse. Hence both the notion of the provocative subordinate and the notion of leader-displaced aggression may be fruitful in understanding destructive forms of leadership, while showing the complex interplay between superiors and subordinates at work. For this we now turn to studies in the paradigm of displaced aggression.





7.4.3.2 Stress and perceived injustice as situational antecedents


A leader’s perception of stress and being mistreated by their employer has been shown to be a significant predictor of subordinate-rated abusive leadership (Aryee et al., 2007; Hoobler & Brass, 2006, Tepper et al., 2006). The importance of injustice and fairness in this regard is in accordance with a metastudy by Cohen-Charash & Spector (2001) showing systematic relationships between procedural and distributive justice and CWB in general. In line with this, a study in 70 Norwegian restaurants (Mathisen et al., 2011) showed that subordinate reports of exposure to workplace bullying were related to both superior-reported stress and superior personality—in this case the agreeableness of the chef—but that superior-reported stress was by far the strongest predictor of bullying. In fact, agreeableness only had an effect when leader stress was low. Bullying was lowest when the chef was not stressed and was highly agreeable, while most bullying occurred when the chef was highly stressed, irrespective of their level of agreeableness. Such findings are in line with the contemporary dominant explanation of bullying and abusive supervision; that is, the displaced-aggression perspective, which states that leaders experiencing stress (Hauge et al., 2010) or lack of organizational justice (Aryee et al., 2007; Tepper et al., 2006) expose their followers to abusive treatment. As pointed out by Hoobler & Brass (2006), a leader or manager who experiences unjust treatment in an organization may not necessarily react against the experienced source of injustice, but instead against a third party who is perceived to be more vulnerable, namely a subordinate. That is, they displace their frustration and aggression on an inferior third party.

Regarding alternative situational antecedents of destructive forms of leadership, the number of empirical studies is rather limited, which may be a surprise. Yet in their review of organizational causes of workplace bullying, Salin & Hoel (2011) document work organization and design, organizational culture and climate, and organizational change as being important precursors of bullying, at least as reported by subordinates, substantiating the idea that such contextual factors also predict leader bullying and abuse. Yet of all such factors, role conflict and role ambiguity have been shown to be the most consistent predictors, a conclusion supported by Bowling & Beehr’s (2006) metastudy showing that the role stressors of role conflict (ρ = .44) and role ambiguity (ρ = .30), together with work constraints (ρ = .54), are the strongest predictors of workplace harassment. Hence leader bullying and abuse seems to thrive where expectations are contradictory or unpredictable, and where an individual’s decision authority is limited.





7.4.3.3 Situational and contextual antecedents—power, change, and culture


Power distance, defined as the degree to which employees accept and believe that organizational, institutional, and societal power should be distributed unequally (see for example Hofstede, 1980), has also been shown to influence how leader behavior is perceived. Individuals who score high on power distance are likely to respect and trust their superiors, and it has been suggested that abusive supervision may have less impact for employees who accept a high power distance. Lian et al. (2011) found that power distance moderated the relationship between abusive supervision and interpersonal injustice, most strongly for individuals reporting a low power-distance orientation.

As regards organizational culture, Brodsky (1976) stated that a necessary condition for bullying to occur is a culture which permits and rewards it. Rayner (1998) found that the main reason given by targets of bullying in a UK study was that “Bullies can get away with it” and “workers are too scared to report it” (p. 582). In studies on sexual harassment, tolerant upper management and a lack of clear organizational norms and policies, including safe complaints procedures, are related to a greater number of instances of misbehavior (see Pryor & Fitzgerald, 2003). Namie et al. (2011) claim that today’s business world generally prefers and nourishes an individualistic, aggressive, and abusive response to interpersonal conflicts. Accordingly, Björkqvist et al. (1994) employed the term “danger-ratio effect” to describe the cost–benefit evaluations people do before eventually engaging in aggressive behaviors such as bullying. In line with this Luthans et al. (1998) state that “dark leaders” have a propensity to emerge in cultures that endorse collectivism and the avoidance of uncertainty. In a culture with high uncertainty avoidance, individuals feel threatened by ambiguous situations and appreciate strong leaders who can provide a high degree of structure. In collective cultures characterized by strong loyalty and cooperation, individuals also prefer strong leaders who can guide and unite people around a common goal. In line with such findings, Tepper (2007) calls on researchers to examine the moderating role cultural orientations may have in abusive supervision. As an extension of this, Van de Vliert & Einarsen (2008) and Van de Vliert et al. (2010) have shown how endorsements and reports of exposure to destructive leadership practices, from now on referred to as “abusive supervision,” vary between countries based on climatic and economic conditions, with abusive supervision being particularly accepted and prevalent in countries with harsh climates and general poverty.

Hence contextual factors may be important as distant antecedents. For instance, Padilla et al. (2007) claim that during times of instability, leaders can enhance their power and exploit the situation at the cost of their followers (see also Glad, 2002). In line with this notion, more studies substantiate the idea that organizational changes are associated with bullying. Hoel & Cooper (2000) found that bullied employees reported more cases of “major organizational change,” “budget cuts,” “major technological change,” and “major internal restructuring” than did nonbullied ones. Skogstad et al. (2007a), in their representative study of the Norwegian working force, found a direct relationship between work-environment changes and reductions in staff and pay, and bullying. In a similar study by Baillien & De Witte (2009), the relationship between organizational change and bullying was fully mediated by role conflict and job insecurity. Both studies show rather low direct relationships between organizational changes and bullying, which raises the question of whether organizational changes by themselves trigger bullying. In line with the literature showing organizational justice to be the most consistent predictor of abusive supervision, Barling et al. (2011) argue that it may not be organizational changes per se that result in victimization, but the way that those changes are carried out. Hence the way in which leaders participate in the execution of organizational changes will, probably, influence subordinate perceptions of abusive leadership.





7.5 Conclusion and Directions for Future Research


So far, we certainly know that bullying and supervisory abuse exist in all organizational settings and on all hierarchical levels (see Zapf et al., 2011 for a review), with severe detrimental effects for those targeted as well as for the organization. Yet we know very little about why leaders expose their subordinates to such treatment and even less about how we might prevent it in the first place and manage it when it occurs (see Einarsen et al., 2011 for some suggestions). With reference to the latter option, we also know too little about how some subordinates cope with abusive superiors and prevent them from having such a traumatic effect on their health, performance, and family life (see Hogh et al., 2011; Yagil et al., 2011 for exemptions). Moreover, we do not know much about what subordinates might do to stop supervisors who tend to bully and abuse them. In this regard, we also need to understand better how subordinates might safely complain and blow the whistle on abusive supervisors (see Hoel & Einarsen, 2011) and how organizations can set up safe policies and procedures to protect subordinates against such experiences (see Rayner & Lewis, 2011).

In order to be better able to prevent and intervene in cases of bullying and abusive leadership, we need to know far more about under what circumstances leaders might behave badly towards their subordinates. The personality and thought processes of the leader, and correspondingly of his or her subordinates, seem to play some role in this. Yet stressors in the organizational environment, including perceived injustices from above and conflicting and unclear role expectancies, seem also to play a crucial part, perhaps via a process of displaced aggression. According to Padilla et al. (2007), introducing the concept of the toxic triangle, and as documented in the present chapter, the antecedents of destructive leadership may be found in characteristics of both the leader, their followers, and the organizational context, and in the dynamic interplay between these factors. To make the picture even more complex, the fit between superior and subordinate characteristics (e.g. personality and values) may play an important role (see Kristof-Brown et al., 2005 for an overview). We thus need study designs that integrate these characteristics.

In order to act upon this pertinent social problem in the workplace, it is crucial that we gain a more thorough understanding of the context in which this misbehavior takes place. Regarding the context, many factors at different levels may contribute to explain abusive leadership over and above what is potentially explained by the individual dispositions of the leader and the subordinate, be it the actual work situation of the leader, characteristics of the psychosocial working environment, the organizational culture, or perhaps even the climatic and economic conditions surrounding the given organization.

Regarding the possibility of preventing and managing such misbehavior in leaders and supervisors, we must acknowledge that this matter may have a legal perspective, and that we must open the field to more multidisciplinary work than has been carried out so far, with social-psychology as by far the dominant approach (see Hoel & Einarsen, 2010a,b; Yamada, 2011 for discussion on legal approaches). In the USA, all social movements on interpersonal abuse and mistreatment, be it child abuse, domestic violence, or discriminatory violence, have been able eventually to convince legislators to enforce state or federal legislation to negatively sanction such misconduct (see Namie et al., 2011). Yet what kinds of legislation will work, how they will work, and how to make them work are important questions still awaiting an answer (see Hoel & Einarsen, 2011; Lippel, 2010 for some attempts).

Furthermore, whilst there is most certainly a strong need for more research on bullying and abusive leadership on its own accord, we nevertheless suggest that future research and theory-building should also include variables measuring constructive forms of leadership, in order to provide a comprehensive view of the leadership phenomenon (see for example Einarsen et al., 2007). For example, it is of interest to note that narcissism in leaders may also have its bright sides (see for example Judge et al. 2009; Rosenthal & Pittinsky, 2006). In their study of CEOs, Chatterjee & Hambrick (2007) show that narcissism is positively related to strategic dynamism and the number and size of acquisitions, and that the performance of firms with narcissistic CEOs is generally neither better nor worse than that of firms with non-narcissistic CEOs. In a similar vein, exposing one or more subordinates to bullying and abuse does not preclude someone from being an effective leader or from having good relationships with other subordinates—this is the basic tenet of the leader–member exchange (LMX) approach to leadership. An abusive supervisor may at the same time be a brilliant strategist, a highly knowledgeable professional, a creative genius, or a charismatic front figure. Yet being a bully may instead prevent them from leading effectively. In line with a conglomerated-behavior approach to organizational behavior (see Einarsen et al., 2010; Van de Vliert, 2007), the possibility of abusive supervision taking place in concert with constructive forms of leadership must be put in greater focus, in order to enhance our understanding of leadership in general and effective leadership in particular.





References


Aasland, M.S., Skogstad, A., & Einarsen, S. (2008). The dark side: defining destructive leadership behaviour. Organisations and People, 15, 20–28.

Aasland, M.S., Skogstad, A., Notelaers, G., Nielsen, M.B., & Einarsen, S. (2010). The prevalence of destructive leadership behaviour. British Journal of Management, 21(2), 438–452.

Adorno, T.W., Frenkel-Brunswik, E., Levinson, D.J., & Sandford, N. (1950). The Authoritarian Personality. Oxford: Norton.

Ambrose, M.L., Seabright, M.A., & Schminke, M. (2002). Sabotage in the workplace: the role of organizational injustice. Organizational Behavior and Human Decision Processes, 89(1), 947–965.

Antonovsky, A. (1987). Unraveling the mystery of health: how people manage stress and stay well. San Francisco: Jossey-Bass.

Aquino, K. & Bradfield, M. (2000). Perceived victimization in the workplace: the role of situational factors and victim characteristics. Organization Science, 11, 525–537.

Aquino, K. & Byron, K. (2002). Dominating interpersonal behavior and perceived victimization in groups: evidence for a curvilinear relationship. Journal of Management, 28(1), 69–87.

Aquino, K. & Thau, S. (2009). Workplace victimization: aggression from the target’s perspective. The Annual Review of Psychology, 60, 717–741.

Aquino, K., Grover, S.L., Bradfield, M., & Allen, D.G. (1999). The effects of negative affectivity, hierarchical status, and self-determination on workplace victimization. The Academy of Management Journal, 42(3), 260–272.

Aryee, S., Chen, Z.X., Sun, L.-Y., & Debrah, Y.A. (2007). Antecedents and outcomes of abusive supervision: test of a trickle-down model. Journal of Applied Pscyhology, 92(1), 191–201.

Ashforth, B. (1994). Petty tyranny in organizations. Human Relations, 47, 755–778.

Ashforth, B. (1997). Petty tyranny in organizations: a preliminary examination of antecedents and consequences. Canadian Journal of Administrative Sciences, 14, 126–140.

Baillien, E. & De Witte, H. (2009). Why is organizational change related to workplace bullying? Role conflict and job insecurity as mediators. Economic and Industrial Democracy, 30(3), 348–371.

Balducci, C., Alfano, V., & Fraccaroli, F. (2009). Relationships between mobbing at work and MMPI-2 personality profile, posttraumatic stress symptoms, and suicidal ideation and behavior. Violence and Victims, 24(1), 52–67.

Barling, J., Dupré, K.E., & Kelloway, K. (2009). Predicting workplace aggression and violence. The Annual Review of Psychology, 60, 671–692.

Bass, B.M. & Avolio, B.J. (1994). Improving organizational effectiveness through transformational leadership. California: Sage.

Bass, B.M. & Riggio, R.E. (2006). Transformational leadership. New Jersey; Lawrence Erlbaum Associates Inc.

Beale, D. & Hoel, H. (2010). Workplace bullying, industrial relations and the challenge for management in Britain and Sweden. European Journal of Industrial Relations, 16(2), 101–118.

Berry, C.M., Ones, D.S., & Sackett, P.R. (2007). Interpersonal deviance, organizational deviance, and their common correlates: a review and meta-analysis. Journal of Applied Psychology, 92(2), 410–424.

Berthelsen, M., Skogstad, A., Lau, B., & Einarsen, S. (2011). Do they stay or do they go? A longitudinal study of intentions to leave and exclusion from working life among targets of workplace bullying. International Journal of Manpower, 32(2), 178–193.

Bies, R.J. & Tripp, T.M. (2005). The study of revenge in the workplace: cconceptual, ideological, and empirical issues. In S. Fox & P.E. Spector, editors. Counterproductive Behavior. Investigations of Actors and Targets. Washington, DC: American Psychological Association.

Bing, S. (1992). Crazy bosses: spotting them, serving them, surviving them. New York: William Morrow and Company.

Björkqvist, K., Österman, K., & Hjelt-Bäck, M. (1994). Aggression among university employees. Aggressive Behavior, 20, 173–180.

Blair, C.A., Hoffman, B.J., & Helland, K.R. (2008). Narcissism in organizations: a multisource appraisal reflects different perspectives. Human Performance, 21(3), 254–276.

Bowling, N.A. & Beehr, T.A. (2006). Workplace harassment from the victim’s perspective: a theoretical model and meta-analysis. Journal of Applied Psychology, 91, 998–1012.

Brodsky, C.M. (1976). The Harassed Worker. USA: Lexington Books.

Burke, R.J. (2006). Why leaders fail. Exploring the dark side. In R.J. Burke & C.L. Cooper, editors. Inspiring Leaders. London: Routledge. pp. 239–248.

Buss, A.H. (1961). The Psychology of Aggression. New York: Wiley and Sons.

Chatterjee, A. & Hambrick, D.C. (2007). It’s All about Me: Narcissistic Chief Executive Officers and Their Effects on Company Strategy and Performance. Administrative Science Quarterly, 52(3), 351–386.

Christie, R. & Geis, F.L. (1970). Studies in Machiavellianism. New York: Academic Press.

Cohen-Charash, Y. & Spector, P.E. (2001). The role of justice in organizations: a meta-analysis. Organizational Behavior and Human Decision Processes, 86(2), 278–321.

Conger, J.A. (1990). The dark side of leadership. Organizational Dynamics, 19(2), 44–55.

Conway, J.M. & Huffcutt, A.I. (1997). Psychometric properties of multisource performance ratings: a meta-analysis of subordinate, supervisor, peer, and self-ratings. Human Performance, 10(4), 331–360.

Cortina, L.M., Magley, V., Williams, J.H. Langhout, R. (2001). Incivility in the workplace: Incidence and impact. Journal of Occupational Health Psychology, 6(1), 64–80.

Cropanzano, R. & Mitchell, M.S. (2005). Social exchange theory: an interdisciplinary review. Journal of Management, 31(6), 874–900.

Dalal, R.S. (2005). A meta-analysis of the relationship between organizational citizenship behavior and counterproductive work behavior. Journal of Applied Psychology, 90(6), 1241–1255.

Di Martino, V., Hoel, H. and Cooper, C.L. (2003). Preventing violence and harassment in the workplace. Dublin, Ireland: European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions.

Douglas, S.C. & Martinko, M.J. (2001). Exploring the role of individual differences in the prediction of workplace aggression. Journal of Applied Psychology, 86(4), 547–559. doi:10.1037/0021-9010.86.4.547

Duan, J., Lam, W. Chen, Z. & Zhong, J.A. (2010). Leadership Justice, Negative Organizational Behaviors, and the Mediating Effect of Affective Commitment. Social Behaviour and Personality; An International Journal, 9, 1287–1296.

Duffy, M.K., Ganster, D., & Pagon, M. (2002). Social undermining in the workplace. Academy of Management Journal, 45, 331–351.

Einarsen, S. (1999). The nature and causes of bullying at work. International Journal of Manpower, 20, 16–27.

Einarsen, S. (2000). Harassment and bullying at work: a review of the Scandinavian approach. Aggression and Violent Behavior, 5(4), 379–401.

Einarsen, S. & Skogstad, A. (1996). Bullying at work: epidemological findings in public and private organizations. European Journal of Work and Organizational Psychology, 5, 185–201.

Einarsen, S. & Raknes, B.I. (1997). Harassment in the workplace and the victimization of men. Violence and Victims, 12, 247–263.

Einarsen, S. & Mikkelsen, E.G. (2003). Individual effects of exposure to bullying at work. In S. Einarsen, H. Hoel, D. Zapf & C.L. Cooper, editors. Bullying and emotional abuse in the workplace. International perspectives in research and practice . London: Taylor & Francis. pp. 127–144.

Einarsen, S., Hoel, H., Zapf, D., & Cooper, C.L. (2003). The concept of bullying and harassment at work: the European tradition. In S. Einarsen, H. Hoel, D. Zapf, & C.L. Cooper, editors. Bullying and Emotional Abuse in the Workplace. International Perspectives in Research and Practice. London: Taylor & Francis.

Einarsen, S., Aasland, M.S., & Skogstad, A. (2007). Destructive leadership behaviour: a definition and a conceptual model. The Leadership Quarterly, 18, 207–216.

Einarsen, S., Skogstad, A. & Aasland, M.S. (2010). The nature, prevalence and outcomes of destructive leadership: a behavioral and conglomorate approach. In B. Schyns & T. Hansbrough, editors. When Leadership Goes Wrong. Destructive Leadership, Mistakes and Ethical Failures. Charlotte, NC: Information Age Publishing, Inc. pp. 145–171.

Einarsen, S., Hoel, H., Zapf, D. & Cooper, C.L. (2011). The concept of bullying and harassment at work: the European tradition. In S. Einarsen, H. Hoel, D. Zapf, & C.L. Cooper. Bullying and harassment in the workplace Developments in theory, research and practice, 2nd edition. USA: Taylor & Francis.

Felson, R.B. & Tedeschi, J.T. (1993a). Motives for sexual coercion aggression and violence: social interactionist perspectives. Washington, DC: American Psychological Association. pp. 233–253.

Felson, R.B. & Tedeschi, J.T. (1993b). A social interactionist approach to violence: cross-cultural applications. Violence and Victims, 3, 295–310.

Ferris, G.R., Bhawuk, D.P.S., Fedor, D.B., & Judge, T.A. (1995). Organizational politics and citizenship: attributions of intentionality and construct definition. In M.J. Martinko, editor. Advances in Attribution Theory: An Organizational Perspective. Delray Beach, FL: St Lucie Press. pp. 231–252.

Fox, S. & Spector, P.E. (2010). Instrumental counterproductive work behaviour and the theory of planned behavior; A “cold cognitive” approach to to complement “hot affective” theories of CWB. In L.L. Neider & C.A. Schriesheim (eds.) The “dark” side of management. Charlotte, NC; Information Age Publishing, Inc.

Furnham, A. & Taylor, J. (2004). The Dark Side of Behaviour at Work. Understanding and Avoiding Employees Leaving, Thieving and Deceiving. New York: Palgrave Macmillan.

Glad, B. (2002). Why tyrants go too far: malignant narcissism and absolute power. Political Psychology, 23(1), 1–37.

Glasø, L. & Einarsen, S. (2006). Experienced affects in leader-subordinate relationships. Scandinavian Journal of Management, 22, 49–73.

Glasø, L., Matthiesen, S.B., Nielsen, M.B., & Einarsen, S. (2007). Do targets of workplace bullying portray a general victim personality profile? Scandinavian Journal of Psychology, 48(4), 313–319.

Glasø, L., Vie, T.L., & Hoel, H. (2009a). Bullying in the workplace. In R. Burke & G. Cooper, editors. Risky business: psychological and behavioural costs of high risk behaviour in organizations. UK: Gower Publishing Limited.

Glasø, L., Nielsen, M.B., Einarsen, S., Haugland, K., & Matthiesen, S.B. (2009b). Basic assumptions and post-traumatic stress disease (PTSD) among victims of workplace bullying. Journal of Norwegian Psychological Association, 46, 153–160.

Goh, A. (2006). An attributional analysis of counterproductive work behavior (CWB) in response to occupational stress. Theses and Dissertations. Paper 2535.http://scholarcommons.usf.edu/etd/2535.

Goldman, A. (2006). Personality disorders in leaders: implications of the DSM IV-TR in assessing dysfunctional organizations. Journal of Managerial Psychology, 21, 392–414.

Greenberg, J. (1990). Employee Theft as a reaction to underpayment inequity: the hidden cost of pay cuts. Journal of Applied Pscyhology, 75(5), 561–568.

Gutek, B.A. (1985). Sex and the Workplace. San Francisco: Jossey-Bass.

Harris, K.J., Kacmar, K.M., & Zivnuska, S. (2007). An investigation of abusive supervision as a predictor of performance and the meaning of work as a moderator of the relationship. The Leadership Quarterly, 18, 252–263.

Harvey, P., Stoner, J., Hochwarter, W., & Kacmar, C. (2007). Coping with abusive supervision: the neutralizing effects of ingratiation and positive affect on negative employee outcomes. The Leadership Quarterly, 18, 264–280.

Hauge, L.J., Skogstad, A., & Einarsen, S. (2007). Relationships between stressful work environments and bullying: results of a large representative study. Work & Stress, 21(3), 220–242.

Hauge, L.J., Skogstad, A., & Einarsen, S. (2010). The relative impact of workplace bullying as a social stressor at work. Scandinavian Journal of Psychology, 51(5), 426–433.

Hershcovis, M.S., Turner, N., Barling, J., Arnold, K.A., Dupré, K.E., Inness, M., et al. (2007). Predicting workplace aggression: a meta-analysis. Journal of Applied Psychology, 92(1), 228–238.

Hinkin, T.R. & Schriesheim, C.A. (2008). A theoretical and empirical examination of the transactional and non-leadership dimensions of the Multifactor Leadership Questionnaire (MLQ). The Leadership Quarterly, 19(5), 501–513.

Hoel, H. & Cooper, C.L. (2000). Destructive Conflict and Bullying at Work. Manchester: UMIST, unpublished report.

Hoel, H. & Einarsen, S. (2010a). Shortcomings of antibullying regulations: the case of Sweden. European Journal of Work and Organisational Psychology, 19, 30–50.

Hoel, H. & Einarsen, S. (2010b). Sweden: the Swedish ordinance against victimization at work; a critical assessment. Comparative Labor Law and Policy Journal, 32(1).

Hoel, H. & Einarsen, S. (2011). Investigating complaints of bullying and harassment. In S. Einarsen, H. Hoel, D. Zapf & C.L. Cooper. Bullying and harassment in the workplace. Developments in Theory, Research and Practice, 2nd edition. USA: Taylor & Francis.

Hoel, H., Rayner, C., & Cooper, C.L. (1999). Workplace bullying. In C.L. Cooper & I.T. Robertson, editors. International Review of Industrial and Organizational Psychology. Chichester, UK: John Wiley & Sons. pp. 195–230.

Hoel, H., Cooper, C.L., & Faragher, B. (2001). The experience of bullying in Great Britain: the impact of organizational status. European Journal of Work and Organizational Psychology, 10(4), 443–465.

Hoel, H., Einarsen, E., & Cooper, C.L. (2003). Organisational effects of bullying. In S. Einarsen, H. Hoel, D. Zapf & C.L. Cooper. Bullying and Emotional Abuse in the Workplace. International Perspectives in Research and Practice. London: Taylor & Francis.

Hoel, H., Sheehan, M.J., Cooper, C.L., & Einarsen, S. (2011). Organisational effects of workplace bullying. In S. Einarsen, H. Hoel, D. Zapf, & C.L. Cooper. Bullying and Harassment in the Workplace. Developments in Theory, Research and Practice, 2nd edition. USA: Taylor & Francis.

Hofstede, G. (1980). Culture’s Consequences: International Differences in Work-related Values. Beverly Hills, CA and London: Sage.

Hogan, R. (1994). Trouble at the Top; Causes and Consequences of Managerial Incompetence. Consulting Psychology Journal, 46(1), 9–15.

Hogan, R., Raskin, R., & Fazzini, D. (1990). The dark side of charisma. In K.E. Clark & M.B. Clark, editors. Measures of Leadership. New Jersey: Leadership Library of America Inc.

Hogh, A., Mikkelsen, E.G., & Hansen, Å.M. (2011). Individual consequences of workplace bullying/ mobbing. In S. Einarsen, H. Hoel, D. Zapf, & C.L. Cooper. Bullying and Harassment in the Workplace. Developments in Theory, Research and Practice, 2nd edition. USA: Taylor & Francis.

Hoobler, J.M. & Brass, D.J. (2006). Abusive supervision and family undermining as displaced aggression. Journal of Applied Pscyhology, 91(5), 1125–1133.

Hornstein, H.A. (1996). Brutal Bosses and their Pray. New York: Riverhead Books.

House, R.J. & Howell, J.M. (1992). Personality and Charismatic Leadership. The Leadership Quarterly, 3(2), 81–108.

Inness, M., LeBlanc, M.M., & Barling, J. (2008). Psychosocial predictors of supervisor-, peer-, subordinate-, and service-provider-targeted aggression. Journal of Applied Psychology, 93(6), 1401–1411. doi:10.1037/a0012810.

Janoff-Bulman, R. (1992). Shattered Assumptions. Towards a New Psychology of Trauma. New York: The Free Press.

Judge, T.A. & Piccolo, R.F. (2004). Transformational and transactional leadership: a meta-analytic test of their relative validity. Journal of Applied Pscyhology, 89(5), 755–768.

Judge, T.A., LePine, J.A., & Rich, B.L. (2006). Loving yourself abundantly: relationship of the narcissistic personality to self- and other perceptions of workplace deviance, leadership, and task and contextual performance. Journal of Applied Psychology, 91(4), 762–776.

Judge, T.A., Piccolo, R.F., & Kosalka, T. (2009). The bright and dark sides of leader traits: a review and theoretical extension of the leader trait paradigm. The Leadership Quarterly, 20(6), 855–875.

Kant, L., Skogstad, A., Thorsheim, T. & Einarsen, S. (2012). Beware the angry leader; Trait anger and trait anxiety as predictors of petty tyranny. Leadership Quarterly, http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.leaqua. 2012.08.005

Keashly, L. (1998). Emotional abuse in the workplace: conceptual and empirical issues. Journal of Emotional abuse, 1(1), 85–117.

Keashly, L. & Jagatic, K. (2011). North American perspectives on hostile behaviors and bullying at work. In S. Einarsen, H. Hoel, D. Zapf, & C.L. Cooper. Bullying and Harassment in the Workplace. Developments in Theory, Research and Practice, 2nd edition. USA: Taylor & Francis.

Keashly, L., Trott, V., & MacLean, L.M. (1994). Abusive behavior in the workplace: a preliminary investigation. Violence and Victims, 9(4).

Kellerman, B. (2004). Bad Leadership. What it is, How it Happens, Why it Matters. Boston: Harvard Business School Press.

Kelloway, E.K., Sivanathan, N., Francis, L., & Barling, J. (2004). Poor leadership. In J. Barling, E.K. Kelloway & M.R. Frone, editors. Handbook of Work Stress. Thousand Oaks: Sage Publications.

Kelloway, E.K., Barling, J., & Hurell, J.J. (2006). Handbook of Workplace Violence. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage.

Kiazad, K., Restubog, S.L.D., Zagenczyk, T.J., Kiewitz, C., & Tang, R.L. (2010). In pursuit of power: the role of authoritarian leadership in the relationship between supervisors’ Machiavellianism and subordinates’ perceptions of abusive supervisory behavior. Journal of Research in Personality, 44(4), 512–519.

Kiwimaki, M., Virtanen, M., Vartia, M., Elovainio, M., Vahtera, J. & Keltikangas-Jarvinen, L. (2003). Workplace bullying and the risk of cardiovascular disease and depression. Occupational and Environmental Medicine, 60, 779–783.

Kristof-Brown, A.L., Zimmerman, R.D., & Johnson, E.C. (2005). Consequences of individuals’ fit at work: a meta-analysis of person-job, person-organization, person-group, and person-supervisor fit. Personnel Psychology, 58(2), 281–342.

Leymann, H. (1990). Mobbing and psychological terror at workplaces. Violence and Victims, 5(2), 119–126.

Leymann, H. (1996). The content and development of mobbing at work. European Journal of Work and Organizational Psychology, 5, 165–184.

Leymann, H. & Gustafsson, A. (1996). Mobbing at work and the development of post-traumatic stress disorders. European Journal of Work and Organizational Psychology, 5, 251–275.

Lian, H., Ferris, D.L., & Brown, D.J. (2011).Does power distance exacerbate or mitigate the effects of abusive supervision? It depends on the outcome. Journal of Applied Psychology.

Lipman-Blumen, J. (2005). The Allure of Toxic Leaders. Why We Follow Destructive Bosses and Corrupt Politicians—And How We Can Survive Them. Oxford: Oxford University Press.

Lippel, K, (2011) The law of workplace bullying: an international overview. Comparative Labor Law and Policy Journal, 32(1), 1–13.

Lombardo, M.M. & McCall, M.W.J. (1984). Coping with an intolerable boss. Greensboro, North Carolina: Center for Creative Leadership.

Lubit, R. (2004). The tyranny of toxic managers: applying emotional intelligence to deal with difficult personalities. Ivey Business Journal, March/April, 1–7.

Lutgen-Sandvik, P., Tracy, S.J., & Alberts, J.K. (2007). Burned by bullying in the american workplace: prevalence, perception, degree and impact. Journal of Management Studies, 44(6), 837–862.

Luthans, F., Peterson, S.J., & Ibrayeva, E. (1998). The potential for the “dark side” of leadership in post communist countries. Journal of World Business, 33(2), 185–201.

Ma, H., Karri, R. & Chittipeddi, K. (2004). Business Horizons, 4(4), 33–40.

Matthiesen, S.B. & Einarsen, S. (2007). Perpetrators and targets of bullying at work: role stress and individual differences. Violence and Victims, 22(6), 735–753.

Mathisen, G.E., Einarsen, S., & Mykletun, R. (2008). The occurrences and correlates of bullying and harassment in the restaurant sector. Scandinavian Journal of Psychology, 49(1), pp. 59–68.

Martinko, M.J., Gundlach, M.J., & Douglas, S.C. (2002). Toward an integrative theory of counterproductive workplace behavior: a causal reasoning perspective. International Journal of Selection and Assessment, 10(1–2), 36–50.

McCrae, R.R. & Costa, P.T. (1987). Validation of the five-factor model of personality across instruments and observers. Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, 52(1), 81–90. doi:10.1037/0022-3514.52.1.81

Mikkelsen, E.G. & Einarsen, S. (2002). Basic assumptions and symptoms of post-traumatic stress among victims of bullying at work. European Journal of Work and Organizational Psychology, 11, 87–91.

Molm, L.D. (1988). The structure and use of power: a comparison of reward and punishment power. Social Psychology Quarterly, 51(2), 108–122.

O’Connor, J., Mason, G., Mumford, M.D., Clifton, T.C., Gessner, T.L, & Connelly, M.S. (1995). Charismatic leaders and destructiveness: an historiometric study. Leadership Quarterly, 6(4), 529–555.

Namie, G. & Namie, R. (2000). The Bully at Work: What You Can Do to Stop the Hurt and Reclaim the Dignity on the Job. Naperville: Sourcebooks.

Namie, G., Namie, R., & Lutgen-Sandvik, P. (2011). Challenging workplace bullying in the United States: an activist and public communication approach. In S. Einarsen, H. Hoel, D. Zapf, & C.L. Cooper. Bullying and Harassment in the Workplace. Developments in Theory, Research and Practice, 2nd edition. USA: Taylor & Francis.

Nielsen, M.B., Hetland, J., Matthiesen, S.B. & Einarsen, S. (2012). Longitudinal relationships between workplace bullying and psychological distress. Scandinavain Journal of Work, Environment and Health, 38(1), 38–46.

Nielsen, M.B., Matthiesen, S.B., & Einarsen, S. (2008). Sense of coherence as a protective mechanism among targets of workplace bullying. Journal of Occupational Health Psychology, 13(2), 128–136.

Notelaers, G., Baillien, E., Vermunt, J.K. DeWitte, H. & Einarsen S. Exploring risk groups of workplace bullying with categorial data. Industrial Health, 49, 73–88.

Olweus, D. (1978). Aggression in the Schools: Bullies and Whipping Boys. Washington, DC: Hemisphere, Wiley.

Organ, D.W. (1988). Organizational Citizenship Behaviour: The Good Soldier Syndrome. Lexington, MA: Lexington.

Ortega, A., Hogh, A., Pejtersen, J., & Olsen, O. (2009). Prevalence of workplace bullying and risk groups: a representative population study. International Archives of Occupational and Environmental Health, 82, 417–426.

Padilla, A., Hogan, R., & Kaiser, R.B. (2007). The toxic triangle: destructive leaders, susceptible followers, and conducive environments. The Leadership Quarterly, 18, 176–194.

Podsakoff, N.P., Whiting, S.W., Podsakoff, P.M., & Blume, B.D. (2009). Individual- and organizational-level consequences of organizational citizenship behaviors: a meta-analysis. Journal of Applied Psychology, 94(1), 122–141.

Pryor, J.B. & Fitzgerald, L.F. (2003). Sexual harassment research in the United States. In S. Einarsen, H. Hoel, D. Zapf, & C.L. Cooper, editosr. Bullying and Emotional Abuse in the Workplace. International Perspectives in Research and Practice. London: Taylor & Francis. pp. 79–100.

Quine, L. (2001). Workplace bullying in nurses. Journal of Health Psychology, 6(1), 73–84.

Rafferty, A.E. & Restubog, S.L.D. (2011). The influence of abusive supervisors on followers’ organizational citizenship behaviours: the hidden costs of abusive supervision. British Journal of Management, 22(2), 270–285.

Rayner, C. (1997) The incidence of workplace bullying. Journal of Community & Applied Social Psychology, 7, 199–208.

Rayner, C. (1998). Workplace bullying: Do something! The Journal of Occupational Health and Safety, 14, 581–592.

Rayner, C. & Lewis, D. (2011). Managing Workplace Bullying: The Role of Policies. In S. Einarsen, H. Hoel, D. Zapf, & C.L. Cooper. Bullying and Harassment in the Workplace. Developments in Theory, Research and Practice, 2nd edition. USA: Taylor & Francis.

Rayner, C., Hoel, H., & Cooper, C.L. (2002). Workplace Bullying. What We Know, Who Is to Blame, and What Can We Do? London: Taylor & Francis.

Rosenthal, S.A. & Pittinsky, T.L. (2006). Narcissistic leadership. The Leadership Quarterly, 17(6), 617–633.

Sackett, P.R. (2002). The structure of counterproductive work behavours: dimensionality and relationships with facets of job performance. International Journal of Selection and Assessment, 10(1/2), 5–11.

Salin, D. & Hoel, H. (2011). Organisational causes of workplace bullying. In S. Einarsen, H. Hoel, D. Zapf, & C.L. Cooper. Bullying and Harassment in the Workplace. Developments in Theory, Research and Practice, 2nd edition. USA: Taylor & Francis.

Schat, A.C.H., Frone, M.R., & Kelloway, E.K. (2006). Prevalence of workplace aggression in the US workforce: findings from a national study. In E.K. Kelloway, J. Barling, & J.J. Hurrell, editors. Handbook of Workplace Violence. Thousand Oaks: Sage.

Schriesheim, C.A. & Neider, L.L. (2010). Abusive and supportive leadership: Two sides of the same coin. In L.L. Neider & C.A. Shriesheim, editors. The “Dark” Side of Management. USA: Information Age Publishing.

Schyns, B. & Hansbrough, T. (2010). When leadership goes wrong. Destructive leadership, mistakes, and ethical failures. Charlotte, NC: Information Age Publishing.

Shackleton, V. (1995). Leaders who derail. In V. Shackleton, editor. Business Leadership. London: Thomson.

Sheehan, M., McCarthy, P., Barker, M., & Henderson, M. (2001). A Model for Assessing the Impact and Costs of Workplace Bullying. Paper presented at the Standing Conference on Organisational Symbolism, Dublin, July.

Skogstad, A., Matthiesen, S.B., & Einarsen, S. (2007a). Organizational changes: a precursor of bullying at work? International Journal of Organization theory and behaviour, 10, 58–94.

Skogstad, A., Einarsen, S., Torsheim, T., Aasland, M.S., & Hetland, H. (2007b). The destructiveness of laissez-faire leadership behavior. Journal of Occupational Health Psychology, 12(1), 80–92.

Spector, P.E. & Fox, S. (2005). A model of counterproductive work behavior. In S. Fox & P.E. Spector, editors. Counterproductive Workplace Behavior: Investigations of Actors and Targets. Washington, DC: APA. pp. 151–174.

Tepper, B.J. (2000). Consequences of abusive supervision. Academy of Management Journal, 43(2), 178–190.

Tepper, B.J. (2007). Abusive supervision in work organizations: review, synthesis, and research agenda. Journal of Management, 33(3), 261–289.

Tepper, B.J., Duffy, M.K., Henle, C.A., & Lambert, L.S. (2006). Procedural injustice, victim precipitation, and abusive supervision. Personnel Psychology, 59, 101–123.

Tepper, B.J., Henle, C.A., Lambert, L.S.; Giacalone, R.A., Duffy, M.K. (2008) Abusive supervision and subordinates’ organization deviance. Journal of Applied Psychology, 93(4), 721–732,

Tepper, B., Moss, S., Lockhart, D., & Carr, J. (2007). Abusive supervision, upward maintenance communication, and subordinates’ psychological distress. The Academy of Management Journal ARCHIVE, 50(5), 1169–1180.

Tepper, B.J., Moss, S.E., & Duffy, M.K. (2011). Predictors of abusive supervision: supervisor perceptions of deep-level dissimilarity, relationship conflict, and subordinate performance. The Academy of Management Journal, 2, 279–294.

Thau, S., Bennett, R.J., Mitchell, M.S., & Marrs, M.B. (2009). How management style moderates the relationship between abusive supervision and workplace deviance: an uncertainty management theory perspective. Organizational Behavior and Human Decision Processes, 108(1), 79–92.

UNISON (1997) Bullying at Work: Bullying Survey Report. London: UNISON.

Van de Vliert, E. (2007). Complex interpersonal conflict behavior: theoretical frontiers. Hove, UK: Psychological Press.

Van de Vliert, E. & Einarsen, S. (2008). Cultural construals of destructive versus constructive leadership in major world niches. International Journal of Cross Cultural Management, 8(3), 275–295.

Van de Vliert, E., Matthiesen, S.B., Gangsøy, R., Landro, A.B., & Einarsen, S. (2010). Winters, summers, and destructive leadership cultures in rich regions. Cross-Cultural Research, 44(4), 315–340.

Vartia, M. (1996). The sources of bullying—psychological work environment and organizational climate. European Journal of Work and Organizational Psychology, 5, 203–214.

Vie, T.L., Glasø, L., & Einarsen, S. (2011). Health outcomes and self-labeling as a victim of ­workplace bullying. Journal of Psychosomatic Research, 70(1), 37–43.

Vredenburgh, D. & Brender, Y. (1998). The hierarchical abuse of power in work organizations. Journal of Business Ethics, 17(12), 1337–1347.

Wang, M., Sinclair, R., & Deese, M.N. (2010). Understanding the causes of destructive leadership behavior: a dual-process model. In B. Schyns & T. Hansbrough, editors. When Leadership Goes Wrong. Destructive Leadership, Mistakes, and Ethical Failures. Charlotte: Information Age Publishing. pp. 73–97.

Watson, D. & Clark, L.A. (1984). Negative affectivity: the disposition to experience aversive emotional states. Psychological Bulletin, 3, 465–490.

Williams, K.D. (2001) Ostracism: The Power of Silence. New York: The Guilford Press.

Wilson, B. (1991). US businesses suffer from workplace trauma. here’s how to protect the mental health of your work force—and the fiscal health of your company. Personell Journal, 70(7), 47–50.

Yagil, D., Ben-Zur, H., & Tamir, I. (2011). Do employees cope effectively with abusive supervision at work? An exploratory study. International Journal of Stress Management, 18(1), 5–23.

Yamanda, D.C. (2011). Workplace bullying and the law: emerging global responses. In S. Einarsen, H. Hoel, D. Zapf, & C.L. Cooper. Bullying and Harassment in the Workplace. Developments in Theory, Research and Practice, 2nd edition. USA: Taylor & Francis.

Zapf, D. (1999). Organizational work group related and personal causes of mobbing/bullying at work. International Journal of Manpower, 20, 70–85.

Zapf, D. & Einarsen, S. (2011). Individual antecedents of bullying: a social interactionist perspective. In S. Einarsen, H. Hoel, D. Zapf, & C.L. Cooper. Bullying and Harassment in the Workplace. Developments in Theory, Research and Practice, 2nd edition. USA: Taylor & Francis.

Zapf, D., Knorz, C., & Kulla, M. (1996). On the relationship between mobbing factors, and job content, social work environment, and health outcomes. European Journal of Work and Organizational Psychology, 5, 215–237.

Zapf, D., Einarsen, S., Hoel, H., & Vartia, M. (2003). Empirical findings on bullying in the workplace. In S. Einarsen, H. Hoel, D. Zapf, & C.L. Cooper, editors. Bullying and Emotional Abuse in the Workplace. International Perspectives in Research and Practice. London: Taylor & Francis. pp. 103–126.

Zapf, D., Escartin, J., Einarsen, S., Hoel, H., & Vartia, M. (2011). Empirical findings on prevalence and risk groups of bullying in the workplace. In S. Einarsen, H. Hoel, D. Zapf, & C.L. Cooper. Bullying and Harassment in the Workplace. Developments in Theory, Research and Practice, 2nd edition. USA: Taylor & Francis.

Zellars, K.L., Tepper, B.J., & Duffy, M.K. (2002). Abusive supervision and subordinates’ organizational citizenship behavior. Journal of Applied Pscyhology, 87(6), 1068–1076.





8


Leadership and Employee Well-being


Emma Donaldson-Feilder, Fehmidah Munir, and Rachel Lewis





8.1 Introduction


Until relatively recently, the literatures relating to leadership on the one hand and employee well-being on the other were quite separate. While it was obvious to many in the workplace that leadership behavior is a key determinant of employee well-being, the relationships between the two constructs had received very little research or theoretical attention. However, this situation has changed significantly over the last 10 years: the number of researchers interested in the impact of leadership on employee well-being has exploded and the literature has grown dramatically. The consistent message coming from this new and growing body of work is that leadership and the way employees are managed are key determinants of employee health, well-being, and engagement (e.g. Alfes et al., 2010; Skakon et al., 2010).

Leadership/people management can impact on employee well-being in multiple ways, from causing stress to enhancing positive well-being and engagement, modeling healthy behavior, and supporting those suffering ill health, to name but a few. This chapter will focus particularly on three aspects of the leadership–employee well-being relationship: how leadership affects employee stress levels and exposure to psychosocial hazards; the relevance of leadership for sickness absence and facilitation of employee return to work following long-term sickness absence; and the role of leadership in engendering employee engagement. It will also review the literature regarding leadership development as a ­mechanism for improving employee well-being.





8.2 Leadership and Employee Stress/Psychosocial Risk


8.2.1 Impact of leadership on employee stress and exposure to psychosocial risk


There is an increasing body of literature linking leadership and people management with stress-related outcomes in employees. This may be a direct impact, through leadership behavior either causing or preventing stress in employees: for example, Hogan et al. (1994) found that the “worst or most stressful aspect of their job is their immediate supervisor” (p. 494) for between 60 and 75% of employees; and Tepper (2000) found the supervisor–employee relationship to be the most commonly reported sources of stress in the workplace. The most recent CIPD absence-management report (CIPD, 2011), which found stress to be a common cause of both short- and -long term sickness absence, suggests that management style is one of the top causes of stress at work. Research has shown effects on stress-related outcomes of manager support (e.g. Rooney & Gottlieb, 2007), transformational leadership (e.g. Nielsen et al., 2008), and leader–member exchange (LMX) (e.g. Harris & Kacmar, 2005). A recent systematic review of 3 decades of research (Skakon et al., 2010) concluded that “leader behaviours, the relationship between leaders and their employees and specific leadership styles were all associated with employee stress and affective wellbeing” (p. 107). A review of specific leadership behaviors linked to employee stress is provided in Section 8.2.2.

Another way that leadership can be linked to employee stress is through an impact on the presence or absence of psychosocial hazards in employees’ working environment (e.g. Cherniss, 1995; van Dierendonck et al., 2004). Leaders and managers may buffer, or exacerbate, the impact of the psychosocial environment on employees (e.g. Nielsen et al., 2006). They can also influence the way an employee perceives their working environment, and consequently its impact upon them. Leaders and managers are in a position to affect most, if not all, aspects of work design (Offerman & Hellman, 1996).

When it comes to work redesign and organizational-development (OD)/change initiatives, leadership is a vital element of how they are implemented (e.g. Parker & Williams, 2001; Parker et al., 1997; Saksvik et al., 2002) and therefore their effectiveness in preventing or reducing employee stress and exposure to psychosocial hazards. Senior managers and line managers are likely to be responsible for implementation, or for allowing and enabling implementation, of interventions, and their support of an intervention is likely to be important for its success (French & Bell, 1995; Nielsen & Randall, 2009). Identifying employee stress and exposure to psychosocial hazards is also a part of the people-management role, for example through team meetings, one-to-ones, and appraisals or performance reviews. Where stress or psychosocial risk is identified, managers are likely to be involved in designing and implementing solutions such as risk ­assessments (Thomson et al., 2004).





8.2.2 Aspects of leadership relevant to employee stress and psychosocial risk


Over recent years, there has been a growing interest in the specific leadership behaviors that are linked to stress-related outcomes. The research emerging can be categorized according to four different leadership theories or approaches: transactional, transformational, and laissez-faire leadership behaviors; negative leadership behaviors; supportive leadership behaviors; and task- and relationship-focused leadership behaviors. There is also a group of studies using other leadership and management indices.





8.2.2.1 Transformational, transactional, and laissez-faire leadership


According to Bass (1985, 1998, 1999), transformational leaders generate enthusiasm for a “vision,” show individualized consideration, create opportunities for employees’ development, set high expectations for performance, and act as role models to gain the respect, admiration, and trust of employees. Bass (1985, 1998) argued that leaders also need to display transactional behaviors, which involve a more straightforward exchange between the leader and their direct report, in which the employee is suitably rewarded for good performance; and he specified a third category of leader behavior, called laissez-faire leadership, which is characterized by a passive leadership style, an avoidance of action, a lack of feedback and communication, and a general indifference to employee performance (Sosik & Godshalk, 2000).

Research suggests that there are positive effects of transformational leadership and negative effects of laissez-faire leadership on a variety of employee stress-related outcomes (e.g. Alimo-Metcalfe & Alban-Metcalfe, 2001; Hetland et al., 2007; Kuoppala et al., 2008; Nielsen et al., 2008; Sosik & Godshalk, 2000). There are also studies linking these forms of leadership to other relevant employee outcomes, such as retention (McDaniel & Wolf, 1992), empowerment and self-efficacy (e.g. Brossoit, 2001; Hetland et al., 2007), meaningfulness (Arnold et al., 2007), optimism and happiness (Bono et al., 2007), and conflict (e.g. Hauge et al., 2007; Skogstad et al., 2007).

Laissez-faire leadership has also been linked to employee experiences of bullying, which can be a psychosocial hazard. For example, Skogstad et al. (2007) found that laissez-faire leadership was associated with role conflict and role ambiguity in employees, and also with increased numbers of employee conflicts and employee experiences of bullying; while Hauge et al. (2007) found a link between laissez-faire leadership and bullying, and that bullying was more likely to occur when supervisors avoided intervening in and managing stressful situations.

Further information on the links between transformational leadership and employee well-being are provided in Chapter 9.





8.2.2.2 Negative leadership


While laissez-faire leadership largely seems to have a negative impact due to lack of action, there is a growing body of literature that suggests leadership can also contribute specific negative behaviors, which can be characerized as bullying (Rayner & McIvor, 2006), undermining (Duffy et al., 2002), “health-endangering” (Kile, 2000), tyrannical (Einarsen et al., 2007), destructive (Einarsen et al., 2007), hostile (Schaubroeck et al., 2007), and abusive (Tepper, 2000). Evidence suggests that the effect of negative leadership on well-being and stress-related outcomes is independent of the effect of the absence of positive leadership. Yagil (2006) found that, although correlated, negative leadership behaviors formed separate factors in exploratory factor analyses to positive leadership behaviors and demonstrated independent effects on well-being and stress-related outcomes. Interestingly, Duffy et al. (2002) found that managers who combined both positive and negative behaviors produced more deleterious outcomes than those who showed ­negative behaviors alone, perhaps due to their inconsistency.

Amongst the range of conceptualizations of negative leadership behaviors, abusive supervision is probably the best studied. Defined as “the sustained display of hostile verbal and non-verbal behaviours, excluding physical contact” (Tepper, 2000, p. 178), it may include using derogatory names and explosive outbursts, intimidating by use of threats (including of job loss), withholding needed information, making aggressive eye contact, giving the silent treatment, and humiliating, ridiculing, or belittling employees in front of others (Tepper, 2000). It involves prolonged emotional and psychological mistreatment (Harvey et al., 2007), rather than isolated instances of abusive behaviors. Research has demonstrated links between abusive supervision and a range of stress- and well-being-related outcomes, including: anxiety (Harris & Kacmar, 2005; Tepper, 2000), depression (Tepper, 2000), burnout (Tepper, 2000; Yagil, 2006), and somatic health complaints (Duffy et al., 2002). For a full review of the concepts, causes, and consequences of bullying and abusive leadership behaviors, see Chapter 7.





8.2.2.3 Supportive leadership


Much of the research investigating the link between leadership/management and employee stress/well-being has been focused upon the level of support provided by leaders and managers. Numerous studies have shown positive consequences of supportive leadership, with higher levels of support being associated with reductions in employee stress and burnout (e.g. Lee & Ashforth, 1996; Schaufeli & Enzmann, 1998), increases in employee well-being and job satisfaction (e.g. Amick & Celantano, 1991; Baker et al., 1996; Moyle & Parkes, 1999; Offerman & Hellman, 1996), and reductions in turnover intentions (e.g. Thomas & Ganster, 1995). However, the majority of this research has been cross-sectional, with only a few longitudinal studies: despite the positive findings from the former, the latter show limited and inconclusive evidence of these positive links (van Dierendonck et al., 2004). A small number have explored manager support as a moderator of the stressor–strain relationship (e.g. Dekker & Schaufeli, 1995; Moyles & Parkes, 1999; Stephens & Long, 2000), though with mixed results.





8.2.2.4 Task- and relationship-focused leadership


Relationship (or consideration)-based leader behaviors include supporting employees, showing respect for employees’ ideas, increasing cohesiveness, developing and mentoring, looking out for employees’ welfare, managing conflict, and team-building (e.g. Arnold et al. 1995; Levy, 2003; Nyberg et al., 2005; Seltzer & Numerof, 1988; Sosik & Godshalk, 2000). In contrast, task (or initiating-structure)-based leader behaviors include planning and organizing, assigning people to tasks, communicating information, monitoring performance, defining and solving work-related problems, and clarifying roles and objectives. A number of studies have investigated the relationships between these two distinct types of leadership behavior and employee stress/well-being (e.g. Duxbury et al., 1984; Seltzer & Numerof, 1988; Sheridan & Vredenburgh, 1978). Overall, this research suggests that consideration/relationship behaviors have a positive impact on employee well-being but that the impact of leaders’ initiating-structure/task behaviors on employees’ health may be more complex (e.g. Duxbury et al., 1984; Landweerd & Boumans, 1994; Kuoppala et al., 2008). High levels of initiating-structure behaviors can have a detrimental effect on employee well-being, but this negative impact may be reduced if the manager displaying them also exhibits a range of more consideration-based behaviors.





8.2.2.5 Other leadership and management indices


Some occupational-stress researchers have highlighted the limitations of simply adopting prominent leadership theories and measures (e.g. Gilbreath, 2004; Gilbreath & Benson, 2004; Nyberg et al., 2005; Offerman & Hellmann, 1996) and have developed and/or employed other specific leadership behavior scales to more clearly reflect the wider research into work design and occupational health. For example, Offerman & Hellmann (1996) explored the relationship between leadership and employee strain from the perspective of a population of managers, their bosses, and their direct reports using the “survey of management practices” measure, which comprises three factors: communication, leader control, and delegation. Analyses revealed that high levels of delegation and communication and low levels of leader control predicted lower employee strain and that emotional support behavior (approachability, team-building, interest in growth and building trust) related to lower levels of strain. Van Dierendonck et al. (2004) used a multidimensional leader-behavior scale and found that leadership behavior and employee well-being were linked in a “feedback” loop: effective leader behavior was associated with higher employee well-being at one time point, and higher levels of employee well-being led to more favorable perceptions of leader behavior at another.

Gilbreath & Benson (2004) developed a supervisory-behavior scale using interviews with managers and employees in health-care and retail organizations. This scale measured a range of behaviors relating to job control, communication, consideration, social support, group maintenance, organization, and looking out for employee well-being; these behaviors were found to be significantly related to employees’ mental health even after accounting for nonsupervisory behavior factors.

Our work in this area (Donaldson-Feilder et al., 2009; Yarker et al., 2007, 2008) has specifically developed a framework of “management competencies for preventing and reducing stress at work,” together with a 66-item measure that can be used to assess the degree to which a particular manager shows the relevant behaviors. Analysis of upward-feedback data showed that those employees who rated their managers as high on the positive manager behaviors and low on the negative manager behaviors included in the framework also had higher levels of well-being (Yarker et al., 2012).

In summary, the research considered here leads to the conclusion that leadership behavior plays a vital role in determining employee stress and exposure to psychosocial risks and that a wide array of positive and negative behaviors are relevant in this context.





8.3 Leadership and Sickness Absence/Return to Work


8.3.1 Relevance of leadership to sickness absence


There is growing recognition of the importance of leadership, and particularly the role of the line manager, in managing employee sickness absence and facilitating employee return to work following sickness absence. A number of studies have been published on the relationship between leadership behaviors, the psychosocial work environment, and sickness absence, and these are reviewed below. Most of these studies have used supervisor support as a measure of leadership behavior, and in some support is measured as part of the demand–support–control model. Although data on leadership and support are collected from self-report questionnaires, the majority of these studies have used robust methodology such as drawing sickness-absence data from either national or occupational registers.

Stansfeld and colleagues (1997) published one of the earliest studies on the relationship between supervisor support and both long and short spells of psychiatric sickness absence: using an occupational cohort from the Whitehall II study (n = 4202 employees), a longitudinal design (5-year follow-up), and sickness-absence data from occupational ­registers, they found that high levels of support from supervisors were related to a lower risk of short spells of psychiatric sickness absence among British civil servants. Using a ­similar longitudinal study design and organizational sickness-absence records with 530 employees, Vahtera et al. (2000) found that where job control was low, high, or improving, supervisory support was associated with a decreased risk of long spells of sickness absence. In contrast, Clumeck and colleagues (2009) found no evidence in their longitudinal study for supervisor support being associated with long-term sickness absence related to depression among 9396 employees. Kuoppala et al. (2008) reviewed seven studies on the effect of leadership on sick leave, of which five were based on the effect of support from a supervisor, measured mainly by the job-content questionnaire. Out of these five studies, three provided moderate evidence that good leadership was associated with a decreased risk of sickness absence (rate ratio = 0.73; range 0.70–0.89) (Ariens et al., 2002; Hoogendoorn et al., 2002; Vahtera et al., 2000). Two of these studies (Ariens et al., 2002; Hoogendoorn et al., 2002) focused on the onset of back pain as the main ill-health outcome and reason for the subsequent sickness absence, whilst Vahtera and colleagues (2000) did not identify the specific ill-health associated with sickness absence in their study.

Other studies looking at specific psychosocial work environments or work characteristics have also reported a relationship between low supervisor support and long-term sickness absence (Labriola et al., 2006; Lund et al., 2005; Nielsen et al., 2006). For example, Labriola et al. (2006) examined the psychosocial and physical work-environment factors predicting long-term sickness absence and found that the risk of long-term sick leave increased with lower support from the manager and poorer management quality. This was consistent with Väänänen et al.’s (2003) findings that a lack of manager support to women and a lack of co-worker support to men increased the frequency of long sickness absence. Nielsen et al. (2006) also reported gender differences in sickness absence: they found that high levels of supervisor support predicted fewer short- and long-term ­sickness-absence spells in men but not in women. Gender differences in social support and sickness absence have also been reported in other studies, such as those by Stansfeld et al. (1997) and Vahtera et al. (2000) already discussed. These studies adopt gender-specific approaches to examining sick leave due to evidence suggesting that sources of stress vary between men and women (Hendrix et al., 1994), and that the relationship between social support and sickness absence is influenced by factors such as demand–control interaction, other psychosocial factors (Vahtera et al., 1996), and personal factors such as number of dependents. Although these studies used longitudinal designs (at least 18-month ­follow-up) and either national-register data or organizational data for sickness absence, most did not examine the relationship between social support and sickness absence by ­different types of ill-health (e.g. psychological versus physical ill-health), which makes it difficult to establish the impact of social support on specific types of ill-health and on both short- and long-term sick leave.

A small number of studies have examined the association between overall quality of leadership and sickness absence. Using a national register for sickness-absence data and a 2-year follow-up, Munir et al. (2011) found that quality of leadership (the extent to which a supervisor or leader provided development opportunities, gave high priority to job ­satisfaction, showed good work planning, and was good at solving conflicts) was related to levels of long-term sickness absence for those with moderate depressive symptoms in a Danish working population—higher-quality leadership being associated with lower levels of absence. In a study on the effect of job demands and resources on long-term sickness absence (using national-register data) by Clausen et al. (2011), job resources such as influence, quality of leadership, and team climate were associated with a reduced risk for long-term sickness absence. However, Clausen and colleagues did not examine these ­relationships by types of ill-health. Moreover, neither Munir et al. (2011) nor Clausen et al. (2011) specified the specific leadership behaviors (e.g. transformational leadership) that influence health and well-being and subsequently sickness absence.

Some studies have examined specific aspects of leadership in relation to sickness absence. A longitudinal study conducted by Dellve et al. (2007) examined leadership qualities and leadership-related psychosocial workplace conditions for workplace health promotion and work attendance. The authors used organizational sickness-absence data and survey data with 3275 employees and qualitative interviews with 23 workplace health-promotion leaders. They found that leaders with multifocused intervention strategies had the ­strongest long-term effect on employee work attendance; high-quality leadership that used rewards, recognition, and respect was also associated with work attendance. Further evidence for the effects of different leadership styles is reported by Schreuder et al. (2011), who studied the effects of two leadership styles on registered short-term sickness absence among a predominantly female Dutch nursing staff: they found that relationship-oriented leadership style was related to lower short-term sickness absence and that task-oriented behaviors were related to higher short-term sickness absence. In another study of 5141 nationally-represented Swedish employees, Nyberg and colleagues (2008) measured five leadership dimensions using subscales from a standardized leadership questionnaire (Global ­Leadership and Organizational Behavior Effectiveness (GLOBE) Research Project) that were known to be associated with employee stress and health. They found that ­inspirational leadership (a component of transformational leadership) was associated with a lower rate of short sickness-absence spells among men, and autocratic leadership was associated with a greater amount of total sick-leave days taken by men, while “team-integrating” leadership was associated with lower spells of short- and long-term sickness absence among women. In line with the studies on supervisor support and gender differences in sickness absence, findings from this study suggest that different aspects of leadership may affect men and women differently in terms of sick leave. However, both these studies are cross-sectional and the study by Nyberg and colleagues used self-report sickness-absence data. Further research is required that is longitudinal in design and that uses ­employer-registered sickness-absence data, in order to determine the leadership behaviors associated with both short-term and long-term sickness absence, and to explore the gender differences associated with leadership behaviors and sickness absence.

This brief review of the literature suggests there are links between leadership and sickness absence but reveals that there is still much to be explored. The differential effects of leadership behaviors on long- and short-term sickness absence require much more research. For example, how leadership behavior affects absence through an impact on health levels (i.e. through poor leadership leading to stress-related common health problems leading to absence) is not yet fully understood.





8.3.2 Relevance of leadership to return to work


Research has started to examine aspects of leadership associated with effective return-to-work processes and outcomes (e.g. Aas et al., 2008; Munir et al., 2011; Yarker et al., 2010). Rick & Thompson’s (2004) research found that line managers have a crucial role to play in the rehabilitation of employees following work-related stress, and the authors suggest that this may hold true for rehabilitation following other types of ill health. Yarker et al. (2010) suggest that line managers are important in the return-to-work process for a number of reasons: they are often the first contact point when the employee is unwell and does not attend work; they are responsible for the day-to-day management of the employee on their return; and they may be the first person called upon by the employee when they need to meet human resources (HR)/occupational health (OH) for advice on their condition and their return to work. This is supported by the findings from Holmgren & Ivanoff’s (2007) study: using a qualitative approach with focus groups, they examined 23 managers’ views on responsibility for the return-to-work process and support of sick-listed employees. Their results suggested that managers defined themselves as the key individuals responsible for the rehabilitation of employees returning from sickness absence and for creating a good working environment in order to prevent ill-health and sickness absence in the first place. However, in a review by Black (2008) on the health of Britain’s working-age population, the importance of line managers feeling confident about approaching sensitive and difficult areas of conversation regarding an employee’s absence and return to work was recognized. In a report by the Work Foundation, Bevan (2003) suggests that even well-designed and -managed return-to-work systems are likely to fall short where line managers are not equipped to deal with the absent and returning employee.

A number of studies have focused on identifying the leadership qualities valued in the return-to-work process. Using a qualitative case-study approach with 30 employees on long-term sick leave and 28 of their supervisors, Aas et al. (2008) found that the leadership qualities valued by employees on long-term sick leave were: ability to make contact, being considerate, being understanding, being empathic, and being appreciative. Interestingly, the leadership qualities that were valued by the employee were different to those which managers believed the employees would prefer, which highlights the difficulties and potential confusions that managers face when facilitating the return to work of employees. Blackman & Chiveralls (2011) used a cross-sectional survey with 270 supervisors and identified four key aspects related to a supervisor’s readiness to engage with vocational rehabilitation processes and self-efficacy for doing so: perceived financial role and liaison role associated with vocational rehabilitation; compliance with legal aspects of the ­process; and capacity to interact (i.e. communicate) with others within the organization. ­Nieuwenhuijsen and colleagues (2004) used a longitudinal survey design with 277 employees (data collected across four time points) and interviews with supervisors (n = 85). They identified the following supervisor behaviors associated with return to work for those with depression: communication with the employee, promoting a gradual return to work, and consulting with professionals. Our own research (Munir et al., 2011; Yarker et al., 2010) developed a framework of manager behaviors to support return to work following long-term sickness absence, together with a measure to explore whether a particular manager shows the relevant behaviors. We also used a longitudinal survey design with 359 employees and 186 managers, as well as interviews with 20 managers and focus-group discussions with 142 key stakeholders (HR and OH professionals). The research identified four categories of behavior displayed by supervisors relevant to an employee’s return-to-work process: communication and support during sick leave; inclusive behavior upon initial return of the employee; negative behaviors; and general proactive support following return to work (e.g. managing the team; an open and sensitive approach; and legal and procedural knowledge). Analysis showed that for employees with stress, depression, and anxiety, receiving high levels of supervisor communication and support during sick leave was associated with shorter long-term sickness absence (i.e. earlier return to work).

A key finding from the studies reviewed above suggests that communication with the employee and with the organization in the return to work and rehabilitation of an employee is an important leadership skill. Blackman & Chiveralls (2011) suggest that the ­importance of effective communication in the return-to-work process is supported by evidence from systematic literature reviews. Moreover, Friesen et al. (2001) reported that one of the perceived barriers to return to work in their qualitative study with 55 stakeholders was ineffective communication among stakeholders. Yarker et al. (2010) further demonstrated that support and communication during sick leave was significantly associated with increased job performance and psychological well-being in employees who had recently returned to work. Thus, communication seems important not just in facilitating return to work but also in achieving better work performance and well-being following return; this may be because it enables the supervisor and the employee to negotiate work tasks, work hours, and other possible work adjustments prior to or during initial return to work.

Overall, differences in study design and in the measures of leadership or behaviors used mean that there is not yet a clear picture of which aspects of leadership are the most important in influencing return to work. The research exploring which leadership qualities contribute to sickness absence has so far looked at different sets of skills and behaviors to those that have been examined for return to work. For example, transformational and situational leadership have been considered in relation to sickness absence, whereas situation-specific skills and competencies have been examined when looking at return to work. Research exploring both sickness absence and return to work could be an important step forward—leadership seems relevant to both, as the two are closely associated. For example, a leader who, through poor management, has been part of the cause of their employee’s sickness absence will also be responsible for supporting (or obstructing) that individual’s return to work: this will clearly have implications for well-being over time and also for subsequent patterns of long-term sick leave.

In addition, there is a need for more nuanced research around leadership and different health conditions. Much of the evidence around leadership and sickness absence/return to work has focused on employees with poor mental health, particularly mental-health conditions associated with work-related stress. However, some studies have also included other health conditions, such as musculoskeletal disorders, coronary heart disease, and cancer; it is possible that the leadership qualities associated with sickness absence and return to work in these cases may be different. Although one study (Yarker et al., 2010) attempted to examine the similarities and differences in line-manager behavior for a range of health problems, much more needs to be done in this area to identify the differences.





8.4 Leadership and Employee Engagement


8.4.1 Evidence that leadership has an impact on employee engagement


Definitions of employee engagement are many and varied (see Lewis et al., 2011 for an exploration). A broad-based definition might be “Being focused in what you do (thinking), feeling good about yourself in your role and the organisation (feeling), and acting in a way that demonstrates commitment to the organisational values and objectives (acting)” (Lewis et al., 2011, p. 4). A number of practitioner studies have concluded that ­organizations with higher levels of employee engagement perform better than those with lower levels of engagement (e.g. Towers Watson, 2008).

While there is only limited academic research on the link between leadership and employee engagement, the practitioner literature places a significant emphasis on the importance of leadership to employee engagement. David MacLeod and Nita Clarke were commissioned by the UK government to review the concept of employee engagement and its potential benefits. Their report (MacLeod & Clarke, 2009) suggests that both leadership and people management are key drivers of employee engagement. A number of other practitioner papers (e.g. Alfes et al., 2010; Robinson & Hayday, 2009; Robinson et al., 2004) also cite senior-leadership communication and visibility and good-quality line management as drivers of employee engagement.

It is also plausible to suggest that leadership will have an impact on the drivers of employee engagement. For example, Maslach et al. (2001) suggest six key areas of work that drive both burnout and engagement: workload, control, reward and recognition, support, fairness, and shared values. It seems likely that leadership and management will influence all of these factors, as leaders and managers determine the amount of work and autonomy employees receive, provide reward, recognition, and support to those who work for them, behave in ways that are perceived as fair or unfair, and establish the values and culture of the workplace. Supervisor support has been found to be positively related to employee engagement (Hakanen et al., 2006), and involving employees in decision-making, as well as in day-to-day control over tasks and schedules, has been related both directly and indirectly to employee engagement (Bakker et al., 2003; Demerouti et al., 2000, 2001; Hakanen et al., 2006). However, there is still very little academic research exploring the links between leadership and employee engagement (Lewis et al., 2011); this is perhaps partly due to the diversity of definitions and conceptualizations of the employee-engagement construct.





8.4.2 Aspects of leadership that impact on employee engagement


Based on their review of the field, MacLeod & Clarke (2009) describe employee engagement-enhancing leadership as: expressing the organization’s vision clearly; providing a clear line of sight; and developing an open and transparent culture. They also suggest that in order to enhance employee engagement, line managers need to: provide autonomy and empowerment to their employees; provide development opportunities; clarify ­expectations; treat employees fairly and with respect; offer coaching, feedback, and training; and ensure that work is effectively and efficiently designed. Research by Alfes et al. (2010) explored the leadership behaviors needed to engender employee engagement and highlighted the impact of perceptions of line management and senior leadership on this. Positive perceptions of line management were significantly related to employee engagement. In order to foster employee engagement, the research suggested that line managers should ensure that: the right people were in the right jobs; goals and objectives were clearly communicated; effort was appropriately rewarded; and opportunities for development and promotion were provided. At the senior-leadership level, it was important that senior management effectively communicated the organization’s vision and adopted an open, transparent, and approachable style.

Macey & Schneider (2008) suggested that transformational leadership behaviors would be a key driver of employee engagement. Although not measuring employee engagement directly, Shamir et al. (1993) showed that transformational leadership enhanced employee feelings of involvement, cohesiveness, commitment, potency, and performance, which would suggest a link to engagement. A diary study by Tims et al. (2011) showed that daily perceptions of transformational leadership related positively to employees’ daily engagement levels. Babcock-Roberson & Strickland (2010) explored the links between charismatic elements of leadership, employee engagement, and organizational citizenship behavior (OCB): using Schaufeli et al.’s (2002) measure of engagement, these authors found that charismatic leadership behaviors were linked to both engagement and OCB and that engagement fully mediated the relationship between charismatic leadership and OCB. Walumbwa et al. (2010) also looked at the impact of leadership on OCB and engagement, using a measure of authentic leadership; they found that authentic leadership behaviors, made up of balanced processing, internalized moral perspective, relational transparency, and self-awareness, were positively related to both engagement and OCB. In this latter study, these relationships were found to be mediated by followers’ identification with their supervisor and their ­feelings of empowerment. Thus transformational, charismatic, and authentic elements of leadership appear to be linked to employee engagement; other models of leadership may also be relevant, such as empowering leadership (Bakker et al., 2011).

Rather than relying on existing measures of leadership, which may not capture all the behaviors relevant to employee engagement, our own work (Lewis et al., 2011) has developed a framework of management competencies specifically for enhancing employee engagement. We conducted 48 semistructured interviews with employees and managers using the critical-incident technique; these explored the manager behaviors that enhanced or reduced particular aspects of employee engagement (thinking, feeling, and acting, as outlined in the definition of employee engagement given above). The interview data were analyzed to extract specific behavioral indicators and group them into themes. The resulting framework consisted of 11 competencies, including areas such as “autonomy and empowerment,” “individual interest,” and “reviewing and guiding.”

In summary, the literature around employee engagement and leadership is sparse, but there is evidence that further exploration of the link between these two factors would be valuable. The literature that does exist suggests that there is a link between how an individual is led and managed and how engaged they are (e.g. MacLeod & Clarke, 2009); however, this still needs empirical testing, and the mechanisms through which any link operates also need exploration.





8.5 Leadership Development As An Employee-Well-Being Intervention


Given the now-substantial body of literature showing links between leadership and a range of employee-well-being outcomes, it is not surprising that a number of authors have commented on the potential to use leadership development as an intervention for improving employee well-being (e.g. Nyberg et al., 2009). Indeed, Kelloway & Barling (2010), reviewing the literature on the association between leadership and occupational health and safety, conclude that “leadership development should be a main target for research on interventions in occupational health psychology” (p. 260).

There is now a small but growing body of research that supports these suggestions. For example, Theorell et al. (2001) evaluated the effects of a training program that aimed to improve the “psychosocial competence” of managers through biweekly training sessions spread over the course of a year (60 hours in total). The training content included information on individual functioning (from a medical and psychological perspective) and the social psychology of groups, as well as process and work redesign elements regarding practical applications and how to initiate psychosocial improvements at work. Managers were also encouraged to discuss the content of the course with their teams between sessions. Measures taken at the end of the training program showed that employees whose managers had participated in the training reported an increase in decision authority (or job control) and experienced a significant reduction in serum cortisol levels (a stress ­hormone), whereas those whose managers had not participated reported a decrease in decision authority and no change in serum cortisol levels.

In a study by Tsutsumi et al. (2005), the effects of a single-session supervisory ­education program were evaluated using a quasi-experimental design. Levels of employee strain in a department in which more than one-third of the supervisors had attended the training were compared with those in a second department in which less than one-third of the supervisors had attended the training. The training session lasted approximately 2¼ hours and included lectures, case studies, and group discussion. Despite being a relatively brief training program, the study showed that this intervention had a beneficial effect on employee strain: psychological strain decreased significantly in the 3 months following the intervention for employees working in the department in which more than one-third of the supervisors had attended the program, while the strain levels remained the same in the comparison department.

Research by Kawakami et al. (2005) evaluated the effect of a Web-based management training program on employee strain. Managers were randomly allocated to receive the training or to a control group. The training content included knowledge about mental health, information on the role of supervisors in occupational health, and awareness of stress and how to cope with it. Managers took 3–5 hours to complete the training, and were advised to spend 2–4 weeks on the entire program. The training did not have a significant impact on employee strain; however, it did appear to have a protective effect on employees’ perceptions of supervisory support, in that supervisory support reduced significantly amongst those employees whose managers did not receive the training, but ­remained the same for those employees whose managers completed the program. The researchers report that the period following the training was an extremely busy time for the company and suggest that the training may have encouraged managers to maintain their levels of support even during the busy periods.

In a study of the impact of supervisor training on employee insomnia, Greenberg (2006) found that the negative impact of a pay cut on employees’ sleep patterns was reduced for those whose supervisors had been trained in interactional justice. “Interactional justice” refers to employees’ perceptions of the fairness of the interpersonal treatment they receive from organizational authority figures (such as supervisors). The supervisor training ­intervention was delivered over two consecutive days and included both interpersonal and informational aspects of interactional justice. Measures of self-reported insomnia showed that employees who had experienced a pay cut reported significantly higher levels of insomnia than those whose pay remained unchanged, but that this effect was reduced considerably for those whose supervisors had received training. The difference was still present 6 months after the training.

Barling et al. (1996) examined the effects of a program designed to develop transformational leadership styles. Managers were randomly assigned either to participate in the development or to be part of a control group. The program consisted of a ­workshop, employee feedback on the individual leaders’ leadership styles, and follow-up coaching. Follow-up evaluation showed that those who worked for managers that had participated in the program (but not those who worked for control-group managers) had enhanced perceptions of their managers’ transformational leadership and enhanced affective ­commitment to the organization; measures of financial performance were also improved for the participant group. McKee & Kelloway (2009) evaluated a similar leadership development program and found that employees working for leaders who ­participated in the program had enhanced perceptions of their supervisors’ transformational leadership style and that this was associated with improved psychological well-being.

Our own research (Donaldson-Feilder et al., 2009) has shown that participation in a program designed around “management competencies for preventing and reducing stress at work” enabled managers to develop the relevant competencies. In particular, managers who were initially rated by their employees as not showing these competencies received higher employee ratings 3 months after participating in a program consisting of upward feedback and a development workshop.

This review of research investigating the impact of leadership development programs on employee well-being provides good evidence that such interventions can have a beneficial impact on employee well-being. It also suggests that leadership development can influence work-design characteristics (e.g. job control and workplace support) and has the potential to reduce the detrimental impact of organizational stressors, such as workplace injustice. However, the number of research studies is still relatively small, and the format and content of the programs studied thus far has been diverse. Considerable further research is needed to understand the best form of leadership development in the context of aiming to improve employee well-being: this should explore issues such as the length, content, and logistics of these programs. It would also be valuable to develop an understanding of how these interventions impact on employee-well-being outcomes: training one person (the leader) in order to affect the well-being of others (that leader’s employees) implicates a range of intervening, mediating variables, including actual and perceived changes in the leader’s behavior, shifts in employee attitudes, and ultimately changes in well-being outcomes. It will be necessary to understand and measure all the intervening variables, including time lags and durations of impact, in order to map these mechanisms and pathways.





8.6 Conclusion


This chapter has emphasized the importance of leadership for employee well-being. Diverse literatures relating to stress and psychosocial hazards, sickness absence and return to work, employee engagement, and leadership development have been explored. Although there are differences in the quantity and quality of studies available in these domains, the majority suggest that better leadership and management is associated with higher levels of employee well-being. Understanding of which aspects of leadership are important has been developed to a limited extent. Exploration of leadership development as a well-being intervention is in its infancy, but is showing great promise.

In the domain of leadership and employee stress, which is probably the best-researched of those considered here, there is still considerable work to be done in exploring the relevant leadership behaviors and their interactions and mechanisms. Links between leadership and employee sickness absence and return to work have received rather less research attention: more research is needed regarding what aspects of leadership are relevant and the mediating factors through which line managers in particular influence outcomes. The impact of leadership on employee engagement, while receiving a high profile in the ­practitioner and national-policy literature, is an extremely under-researched area: academic research could usefully explore whether and through what mechanisms leadership impacts on engagement. Further research into leadership development looking at well-being ­outcomes is another potentially rich field, particularly in exploring the complexity of ­mediating variables and how different formats of development intervention impact on all ­elements of the picture. In addition, individual and organizational performance outcomes need to be brought into study designs in order to develop a more complete picture.

There is potential, moving forward, for research in this field to create a much clearer understanding of the complexity of the relationships that exist between leadership, employee well-being, and performance. Importantly, this would provide an evidence base for practice and interventions in these domains and present opportunities for enhancing employee well-being and performance outcomes by improving leadership and management skills.





References


Aas, R.W., Ellingsen, K.I., Lindøe P., & Möller A. (2008). Leadership qualities in the return to work process: a content analysis. Journal of Occupational Rehabilitation, 18, 335–346.

Alfes, K., Truss, C., Soane, E.C., Rees, C., & Gatenby, M. (2010). Creating an engaged workforce, CIPD, London. http://www.cipd.co.uk/subjects/empreltns/general/_creating_engaged_workforce.htm.

Alimo-Metcalfe, B. & Alban-Metcalfe, R.J. (2001). The development of a new transformational leadership questionnaire. Journal of Occupational and Organizational Psychology, 74, 1–27.

Amick, B.C., & Celantano, D.D. (1991). Structural determinants of the psychosocial work environment: introducing technology in the work stress framework. Ergonomics, 34, 625–646.

Ariens, G.A., Bongers, P.M., Hoogendoorn, W.E., van der Wal, G., & van Mechelen, W. (2002). High physical and psychosocial load at work due to neck pain. Scandinavian Journal of Work, Environment & Health, 28, 222–231.

Arnold, J., Cooper, C.L., & Robertson, I.T. (1995). Work Psychology: Understanding Human Behaviour in the Workplace. London: Pitman.

Arnold, K.A., Turner, N., Barling, J., Kelloway, E.K., & McKee, M.C. (2007). Transformational leadership and psychological well-being: the mediating role of meaningful work. Journal of Occupational Health Psychology, 12, 193–203.

Avolio, B.J. & Gardner, W.L. (2005). Authentic leadership development: getting to the root of positive forms of leadership. Leadership Quarterly, 16, 315–338.

Babcock-Roberson, M.E. & Strickland, O.J. (2010). The relationship between Charismatic Leadership, Work Engagement and Organisational Citizenship Behaviours. Journal of Psychology, 144, 313–326.

Baker, E., Israel, B., & Schurman, S. (1996). Role of control and support in occupational stress: an integrated model. Social Science and Medicine, 43, 1145–1159.

Bakker, A.B., Albrecht, S.L., & Leiter, M.P. (2011) Key questions regarding work engagement. European Journal of Work and Organisational Psychology, 20, 4–28.

Bakker, A.B., Demerouti, E., De Boer, E., & Schaufeli, W.B. (2003). Job demands and job resources as predictors of absence duration and frequency. Journal of Vocational Behavior, 62, 341–356.

Barling, J., Weber, T., & Kelloway, K. (1996). Effects of transformational leadership training on attitudinal and financial outcomes: a field experiment. Journal of Applied Psychology, 81, 827–832.

Bass, B. (1985). Leadership and Performance beyond Expectations. New York: Free Press.

Bass, B.M. (1990). From transactional to transformational leadership: learning to share the vision. Organizational Dynamics, 18, 19–31.

Bass, B.M. (1998). Transformational leadership: industrial, military, and educational impact. Hillsdale, NJ: Erlbaum.

Bass, B.M. (1999). Two decades of research and development in transformational leadership. European Journal of Work and Organizational Psychology, 8, 9–32.

Bass, B.M. & Avolio, B.J. (1994). Improving organisational effectiveness through transformational leadership. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage.

Beehr, T.A., King, L.A., & King, D.W. (1990). Social support, occupational stress: talking to supervisors. Journal of Vocational Behavior, 36, 61–81.

Bevan S. (2003). Attendance Management. The Work Foundation.

Black, C. (2008). Working for a healthier tomorrow: review of the health of Britain’s working age population. London: TSO.

Blackman I. & Chiveralls K. (in press).Factors influencing workplace supervisor readiness to engage in workplace-based vocational rehabilitation. Journal of Occupational Rehabilitation. doi:10.1007/s10926-011-9297-1.

Bono, J.E., Foldes, H.J., Vinson, G., & Muros, J.P. (2007). Workplace emotions: the role of supervision and leadership. Journal of Applied Psychology, 92, 1357–1367.

Brossoit, K.B. (2001). Understanding employee empowerment in the workplace: exploring the relationships between transformational leadership, employee perceptions of employment and key work outcomes. Unpublished doctoral dissertation. The Claremont Graduate University.

Cherniss, C. (1995). Beyond Burnout: Helping Teachers, Nurses, Therapists & Lawyers Recover from Stress and Disillusionment. New York: Routledge.

CIPD (2011). Annual Survey Report 2011: Absence Management. http://www.cipd.co.uk/hr-resources/survey-reports/absence-management-2011.aspx.

Clausen, T., Nielsen, K., Carneiro, I.G., & Vilhelm, B. (2011). Job demands, job resources and long-term sickness absence in the Danish eldercare services: a prospective analysis of ­register-based outcomes. Journal of Advanced Nursing. doi:10.1111/j.1365-2648.2011.05724.x.

Clumeck, N., Kempenaers, C., Godin, I., Dramaix, M., Kornitzer, M., Linkowski, P., & Kittel, F. (2009). Working conditions predict incidence of long-term spells of sick leave due to depression: results from the Belstress I prospective study. Journal of Epidemiology and Community Health, 63, 286–292.

Dekker, S.W.A. & Schaufeli, W.B. (1995). The effects of job insecurity on psychological health and withdrawal: a longitudinal study. Australian Psychologist, 30, 57–63.

Dellve, L., Skagert, K., & Vilhelmsson, R. (2007). Leadership in workplace health promotion ­projects: 1- and 2-year effects on long-term work attendance. European Journal of Public Health, 17, 471–476.

Demerouti, E., Bakker, A.B., Nachreiner, F. & Schaufeli, W.B. (2000). A model of burnout and life satisfaction amongst nurses. Journal of Advanced Nursing, 32, 454–464.

Demerouti, E., Bakker, A.B., Nachreiner, F., & Schaufeli, W.B. (2001). The job demands-resources model of burnout. Journal of Applied Psychology, 86, 499–512.

Donaldson-Feilder, E.J., Lewis, R., & Yarker, J. (2009). Preventing Stress: Promoting Positive Manager Behaviour. CIPD Insight Report.

Duffy, M.K., Ganster, D.C., & Pagon, M. (2002) Social undermining in the workplace. Academy of Management Journal, 45, 331–351.

Duxbury, M.L., Armstrong, G.D., Drew, D.J., & Henly, S.J. (1984). Head nurse leadership style with staff nurse burnout and job satisfaction in neonatal intensive care units. Nursing Research, 33, 97–101.

Einarsen, S., Aasland, M.S., & Skogstad, A. (2007). Destructive leadership behaviour: a definition and conceptual model. Leadership Quarterly, 18, 207–216.

Fenalson, K.J. & Beehr, T.A. (1994). Social support and occupational stress: effects of talking to others. Journal of Organizational Behavior, 15, 157–175.

French, W.L. & Bell, C.H. (1995). Organization development: behavioral science interventions for organization development. Englewood Cliffs: Prentice Hall.

Friesen, M., Yassi, A., & Cooper, J. (2001). Return-to-work: the importance of human interactions and organizational structures. Work: A Journal of Prevention, Assessement and Rehabilitation, 17(1), 11–22.

Gilbreath, B. (2004). Creating healthy workplaces: the supervisor’s role. International Review of Industrial and Organizational Psychology, 19, 93–118.

Gilbreath, B. & Benson, P.G. (2004). The contribution of supervisor behaviour to employee psychological well-being. Work & Stress, 18, 255–266.

Greenberg (2006). Losing sleep over organizational injustice: attenuating insomniac reactions to underpayment inequity with supervisory training in interactional justice. Journal of Applied Psychology, 91, 58–69.

Hakanen, J.J., Bakker, A.B., & Schaufeli, W.B. (2006). Burnout and work engagement among teachers. Journal of School Psychology, 43, 495–513.

Harris, K.J. & Kacmar, K.M. (2005). Easing the strain: the buffering role of supervisors in the ­perceptions of politics-strain relationship. Journal of Occupational and Organizational Psychology, 78, 337–354.

Harvey, P., Stoner, J., Hochwarter, W., & Kacmar, C. (2007). Coping with abusive supervision: the neutralising effects of ingratiation and positive affect on negative employee outcomes. Leadership Quarterly, 18, 264–280.

Hauge, L.J., Skogstad, A., & Einarsen, S. (2007). Relationships between stressful work environments and bullying: results of a large representative study. Work and Stress, 21, 220–242.

Hendrix, W.H., Spencer, B.A., & Gibson, G.S. (1994). Organizational and extraorganizational factors affecting stress, employee well-being and absenteeism for males and females. Journal of Business and Psychology, 9, 103–128.

Hetland, H., Sandal, G.M., & Johnsen, T.B. (2007). Burnout in the information technology sector: does leadership matter? European Journal of Work and Organisational Psychology, 16, 58–75.

Hogan, R., Curphy, G.J., & Hogan, J. (1994). What we know about leadership: effectiveness and personality. American Psychologist, 49, 493–504.

Holmgren, K. & Ivanoff, S.D. (2007). Supervisors views on employer responsibility in the return to work process. Journal of Occupational Rehabilitation, 17, 93–106.

Hoogendoorn, W.E., Bongers, P.M., de Vet, H.C., Ariens, G.A., van Mechelen, W., & Bouter, L.M. (2002). High physical work load and low job satisfaction increase the risk of sickness absence due to low back pain: results of a prospective cohort study. Occupational Environmental Medicine, 59, 323–328.

Kawakami, N., Kobayashi, Y., Takao, S., & Tsutsumi, A. (2005). Effects of web-based supervisor training on supervisor support and psychological distress among workers: a randomized ­controlled trial. Preventive Medicine, 471–478.

Kelloway, E.K. & Barling, J. (2010). Leadership development as an intervention in occupational health psychology. Work & Stress, 24, 260–279.

Kile, S.M. (2000). Health Endangering Leadership. Unpublished doctoral dissertation. Bergen, Norway.

Kuoppala, J., Lamminpaa, A., Liira, J., & Vainio, H. (2008). Leadership, job well-being, and health effects—a systematic review and a meta-analysis. Journal of Occupational and Environmental Medicine, 50, 904–915.

Labriola, M., Christensen, K.B., Lund, T., Nielsen, M.L., & Diderichsen, F. (2006) Multilevel analysis of workplace and individual risk factors for longterm sickness absence. Journal of Occupational Environmental Medicine, 48(9), 923–929.

Landeweerd, J.A. & Boumans, N.P.G. (1994). The effect of work dimensions and need for autonomy on nurses’ work satisfaction and health. Journal of Occupational and Organizational Psychology, 67, 207–217.

Lee, R.T. & Ashforth, B.E. (1996). A meta-analytic examination of the correlates of the three ­dimensions of burnout. Journal of Applied Psychology, 81, 123–133.

Levy, P.E. (2003). Industrial/organizational psychology: understanding the workplace. Boston, MA: Houghton Mifflin.

Lewis, R., Donaldson-Feilder, E., & Tharani, T. (2011). Management competencies for enhancing employee engagement. London: CIPD.

Lund, T., Labriola, M., Christensen, K.B., Bültmann, U., Villadsen, E., & Burr, H. (2005). Psychosocial work environment exposures as risk factors for long-term sickness absence among Danish employees: results from DWECS/DREAM. Journal of Occupational Environmental Medicine, 47, 1141–1147.

Macey, W.H. & Schneider, B. (2008). The meaning of employee engagement. Industrial and Organizational Psychology, 1, 3–30.

MacLeod, D. & Clarke, N. (2009) Engaging for success: enhancing performance through employee engagement. London: Office of Public Sector Information. Retrieved 09/20/10 from http://www.bis.gov.uk/files/file52215.pdf.

Maslach, C., Schaufeli, W.B., & Leiter, M.P. (2001). Job burnout. Annual Review of Psychology, 52, 397–422.

McDaniel, C., & Wolf, G.A. (1992). Transformational leadership in nursing service. Journal of Nursing Administration, 22, 60–65.

McKee, M., & Kelloway, K. (2009). Leading to wellbeing. Paper presented to the annual meeting of the European Academy of Work and Organizational Psychology, Santiago de Compostella, Spain.

Moyle, P. & Parkes, K. (1999). The effects of transition stress: a relocation study. Journal of Organizational Behavior, 20, 625–646.

Munir, F., Burr, H., Hansen, J.H., Rugulies, R., & Nielsen, K. (2011a). Do positive psychosocial work factors protect against 2-year incidence of long-term sickness absence among employees with and those without depressive symptoms? A prospective study. Journal of Psychosomatic Research, 70, 3–9.

Munir, F., Yarker, J., Hicks, B., & Donaldson-Feilder, E. (2011b). Returning employees back to work: developing a measure for supervisors to support return to work (SSRW). Journal of Occupational Rehabilitation. doi:10.1007/s10926-011-9331-3.

Nielsen, K. & Randall, R. (2009). Managers’ active support when implementing teams: the impact on employee well-being. Applied Psychology: Health and Well-being, 1, 374–390.

Nielsen, M.L., Rugulies, R., Christiansen, K.B., Smith-Hansen, L., & Kristiansen, T.S. (2006). Psychosocial work environment predictors of short and long spells of sickness absence during a two year follow up. Journal of Occupational and Environmental Medicine, 48, 591–595.

Nielsen, K., Randall, R., Yarker, J., & Brenner, S.O. (2008). The effects of transformational leadership in followers perceived work characteristics and well-being: a longitudinal study. Work and Stress, 22, 16–32.

Nieuwenhuijsen, K., Verbeek, J.H.A.M., De Boer, A.G.E.M., Blonk, R.W.B., & Van Djik, F.J.H. (2004). Supervisory behaviour as a predictor of return to work in employee absent from work due mental health problems. Occupational Environmental Medicine, 61, 817–823.

Nyberg, A., Bernin, P., & Theorell, T. (2005). The impact of leadership on the health of subordinates. The National Institute for Working Life.

Nyberg A., Westerlund H., Magnusson, Hansson L., & Theorell T. (2008). Managerial leadership is associated with self-reported sickness absence and sickness presenteeism among Swedish men and women. Scandinavian Journal of Public Health, 36, 803–811.

Nyberg, A., Alfredsson, L., Theorell, T., Westerlund, H., Vahtera, J., & Kivimaki, M., (2009). Managerial leadership and ischaemic heart disease among employees: the Swedish WOLF study. Occupational and Environmental Medicine, 66, 51–55.

Offerman, L.R. & Hellmann, P.S. (1996). Leadership behaviour and subordinate stress: a 360 view. Journal of Occupational Health Psychology, 1, 382–390.

Parker, S. & Williams, H. (2001). Effective teamworking: reducing the psychosocial risks. Norwich, UK: HSE Books.

Parker, S.K., Chmiel, N., & Wall, T.D. (1997). Work characteristics and employee well-being within a context of strategic downsizing. Journal of Occupational Health Psychology, 2, 289–303.

Rayner, C. & McIvor, K. (2006). Report to the Dignity at Work Project Steering Committee. Dignity at Work Report: Portsmouth University.

Robinson, D. & Hayday, S., (2009). The Engaging Manager. Report 470. Institute for Employment Studies.

Robinson, D., Perryman, S., & Hayday S. (2004). The Drivers of Employee Engagement. Institute of Employment Studies.

Rooney, J.A. & Gottlieb, B.H. (2007). Development and initial validation of a measure of supportive and unsupportive managerial behaviours. Journal of Vocational Behavior, 71, 186–203.

Saksvik, P.O., Nytro, K., Dahl-Jorgensen, C., & Mikkelsen, A. (2002). A process evaluation of individual and organisational occupational stress and health interventions. Work & Stress, 16, 37–57.

Schaubroeck, J., Walumbwa, F.O., Ganster, D.C., & Kepes, S. (2007). Destructive leadership traits and the neutralising influence of an “enriched” job. Leadership Quarterly, 18, 236–251.

Schaufeli, W.B. & Enzmann, D. (1998). The burnout companion to study and research. London: Taylor & Francis.

Schaufeli, W., Salanova, M., Gonzalez-Roma, V., & Bakker, A.B. (2002). The measurement of engagement and burnout: a two-sample confirmatory factor analytic approach. Journal of Happiness Studies, 3, 71–92.

Schreuder, J.A.H., Roelen, C.A.M., van Zweedon, N.F., Jongsma, D., van der Klink, J.C.L., & Groothoff, J.W. (2011). Leadership effectiveness and recorded sickness absence among nursing staff: a cross-sectional pilot study. Journal of Nursing Management, 19, 585–595.

Seltzer, J. & Numerof, R.E. (1988). Supervisory leadership and subordinate burnout. Academy of Management Journal, 31, 439–446.

Shamir, B., House, R.J., & Arthur, M.B. (1993). The motivational effect of charismatic leadership: a self-concept based theory. Organization Science, 4, 577–594.

Sheridan, J.E. & Vredenburgh, D.J. (1978). Usefulness of leadership behavior and social power variables in predicting job tension, performance, and turnover of nursing employees. Journal of Applied Psychology, 63, 89–95.

Skakon, J., Nielsen, K., Borg, V., & Guzman, J. (2010). Are leaders’ well-being, behaviours and style associated with the affective well-being of their employees? A systematic review of three decades of research. Work & Stress, 24, 107–139.

Skogstad, A., Einarsen, S., Torsheim, T., Aasland, M.S., & Hetland, H. (2007). The destructiveness of laissez-faire leadership behaviour. Journal of Occupational Health Psychology, 12, 80–92.

Sosik, J.J. & Godshalk, V.M. (2000). Leadership styles, mentoring functions received, and job-related stress: a conceptual model and preliminary study. Journal of Organizational Behavior, 21, 365–390.

Stansfeld, S.A., Rael, E.G.S., Head, J., Shipley, M., & Marmot, M. (1997). Social support and ­psychiatric sickness absence: a prospective study of British Civil Servants. Psychological Medicine, 27, 35–48.

Stephens, C. & Long, N. (2000). Communication with police supervisors and peers as a buffer of work related traumatic stress. Journal of Organizational Behavior, 21, 407–424.

Tepper, B.J. (2000). Consequences of abusive supervision. Academy of Management Journal, 43, 178–190.

Tepper, B.J. (2007). Abusive supervision in work organizations: review, synthesis and research agenda. Journal of Management, 33, 261–289.

Theorell, T., Emdad, R., Arnetz, B., & Weingarten, A.-M. (2001). Employee effects of an educational program for managers at an insurance company. Psychosomatic Medicine, 63, 724–733.

Thomas, L.T. & Ganster, D.C. (1995). Impact of family-supportive work variables on work-family conflict and strain: a control perspective. Journal of Applied Psychology, 80, 6–15.

Thomson, L., Rick, J., & Neathey, F. (2004). Best practice in rehabilitating employees following absence due to work related stress. HSE Books.

Towers Watson (2008). Global Workforce Study 2007–2008: Closing the Engagement Gap: A Road Map for Driving Superior Business Performance. London: Towers Watson.

Tsutsumi, A., Takao, S., Mineyama, S., Nishiuchi, K., Komatsu, H., & Kawakami, N. (2005). Effects of a supervisory education for positive mental health in the workplace: a quasi-experimental study. Journal of Occupational Health, 47, 226–235.

Väänänen, A., Toppinen-Tanner, S., Kalimo, R., Mutanen, P., Vahtera, J., & Peiró J. (2003) Job characteristics, physical and psychological symptoms, and social support as antecedents of sickness absence among men and women in the private industrial sector. Social Science & Medicine, 57, 807–824.

Vahtera, J., Pentti, J., & Uutela, A. (1996). The effect of objective job demands on registered sickness absence spells: do personal, social and job-related resources act as moderators? Work and Stress, 10, 286–308.

Vahtera, J., Kivimäki, M., Pentti, J., & Theorell, T. (2000). Effect of change in the psychosocial work environment on sickness absence: a seven year follow-up of initially healthy employees. Journal of Epidemiology & Community Health, 54, 484–493.

Van Dierendonck, D., Haynes, C., Borrill, C., & Stride, C. (2004). Leadership behavior and subordinate well-being. Journal of Occupational Health Psychology, 9, 165–175.

Yagil, D. (2006). The relationship of abusive and supportive workplace supervision to employee burnout and upward influence tactics. Journal of Emotional Abuse, 6, 49–65.

Yarker, J., Donaldson-Feilder, E., Lewis, R., & Flaxman, P.E. (2007). Management competencies for preventing and reducing stress at work: Identifying and developing the management behaviours necessary to implement the HSE Management Standards. London: HSE Books.

Yarker, J., Donaldson-Feilder, E., & Lewis, R. (2008). Management competencies for preventing and reducing stress at work: identifying and developing the management behaviours necessary to implement the HSE Management Standards: Phase 2. HSE Books: London.

Yarker, J., Munir, F., Donaldson-Feilder, E., & Hicks, B. (2010). Managing rehabilitation: a competency framework for manager to support return to work. London: British Occupational Health Research Foundation.

Yarker, J., Lewis, R., Donaldson-Feilder, E., & Nielsen, K. (2012). Stress Management Competence: The Development of a Measure. In preparation.





9


Transformational Leadership and Psychological Well-being: Effects on Followers and Leaders


Kara A. Arnold and Catherine E. Connelly





9.1 Introduction


Leaders hold a central role in the success of any organization. They are responsible not only for an organization’s strategy and how it is operationalized and implemented but also for the well-being of their followers. In this chapter we therefore describe research focused specifically on the relationship between transformational leadership behaviors and employee psychological well-being. We present a critical analysis of this body of work, focusing on the strengths and limitations of the existing literature, and making suggestions for future research. We also summarize the literature that examines how transformational leadership behaviors affect leaders’ psychological well-being. Currently, the transformational-leadership literature focuses on the impact that transformational leadership in supervisors has on their followers: their performance, their job-related attitudes and their well-being (for a summary see Bass & Riggio, 2006). Much less empirical work has focused on the effects of enacting transformational leadership on leaders themselves, despite its potential importance.





9.1.1 Why transformational leadership?


The relationship between supervisor and employee is an important influence on employee well-being (e.g. Cooper & Payne, 1991; Landeweerd & Boumans, 1994; Skakon et al., 2010; Tepper, 2000). A summary of research related to employee occupational health and well-being at the turn of the century argued that managerial style was one of four main concerns related to employee well-being (Sparks et al., 2001). In essence, managers’ behaviors can either create or reduce stress for employees. When supervisors communicate effectively and provide support to employees, stress is reduced; on the other hand, when they engage in abusive, bullying behaviors, stress is increased (Sparks et al., 2001).

Managers with employees who are less stressed may also find it easier to engage in positive leadership behaviors, resulting in a positive spiral. The importance of psychosocial workplace factors in understanding employee well-being is emphasized by a study which found that incremental variance in the psychological well-being of employees was ­accounted for by supervisory behaviors, after controlling for age, health practices, support from other people at work, support from home, stressful life events, and stressful work events (Gilbreath & Benson, 2004). Indeed, supervisory behaviors are an important influence on employee well-being. Yet, as Gilbreath & Benson (2004) note, they used a newly-developed composite of supervisory behaviors in their study, and “it is likely that particular types of supervisor behaviour … promote employees’ psychological well-being” (p. 263). One example of supervisory behavior that has the potential to influence follower well-being is transformational leadership.

Transformational leadership has been widely hailed, both by academics (e.g. Bass, 1985, 1998; Bass & Riggio, 2006) and practitioners (e.g. Desvaux & Devillard-Hoellinger, 2008; Desvaux et al., 2007), as a way to inspire loyalty and to motivate people to succeed and perform at higher levels than they thought possible. Transformational leadership, as elucidated by Bass, Avolio, and colleagues (e.g. Avolio & Bass, 1995; Avolio et al., 1991, 1999; Bass & Avolio, 1993, 1994; Bass et al., 1996; Hater & Bass, 1988; Yammarino & Bass, 1990), is part of a “full-range” model of leadership. The full-range model includes transactional and laissez-faire aspects of leadership in addition to those that are transformational (Antonakis, 2012; Avolio, 1999). For the purposes of this review, we focus on transformational leadership, as these behaviors add to the positive effects of transactional leadership (Bass & Riggio, 2006).

The first dimension of transformational leadership, idealized influence, consists of ­characteristics that are attributed to the leader by followers, as well as the actual behaviors that the leader engages in. Idealized influence is evident when a leader has strong values and follows these values with appropriate actions (Bass & Riggio, 2006). When followers react positively to their leaders, for example by viewing them as role models, one may attribute this to idealized influence. A related component of transformational leadership is inspirational motivation. A leader who communicates a clear and uplifting vision, who convinces followers to share this vision, and who holds high expectations for followers, is demonstrating this dimension (Bass & Riggio, 2006). These first two dimensions, when combined, are similar to charismatic leadership.

The third dimension of transformational leadership is intellectual stimulation. Leaders with high levels of this cognitive aspect expect and encourage followers to think of different ways of solving problems, are open to new ideas, and encourage creativity (Bass & Riggio, 2006).

The final component of transformational leadership is individual consideration: supporting and developing each follower to his or her full capacity. This involves treating employees as individuals, knowing their needs and capabilities, and mentoring them (Bass & Riggio, 2006; Rafferty & Griffin, 2006).

Transformational leadership can be reliably measured by the Multifactor Leadership Questionnaire (MLQ; Bass & Avolio, 2000). While there are other measures of transformational leadership in the literature (e.g. Alimo-Metcalfe & Alban-Metcalfe, 2001; Carless et al., 2000; Podsakoff et al., 1990; Rafferty & Griffin, 2004), the MLQ is the most widely used (Antonakis, 2012; Eagly et al., 2003). Transformational leadership was the most studied of all leadership theories in the 1990s (Judge & Piccolo, 2004), and the most widely published leadership theory in the Leadership Quarterly journal for the past 2 decades (Gardner et al., 2010; Lowe & Gardner, 2000). As Antonakis (2012) notes, “this research stream dominates the leadership landscape—whether deservingly or not” (p. 257). Given how widely this leadership theory has been advocated, it is important to understand whether transformational leadership can affect the health and well-being of both followers and leaders; and if so, why and under what conditions these relationships occur. In this chapter we focus on summarizing and critiquing the research that answers these questions.





9.2 Well-being Outcomes: Burnout, Affect, and Mental Health


The concept of “well-being” is very broad and can be composed of both physical and psychological health (e.g. Liu et al., 2010). In this chapter we set aside the topic of physical health, and focus exclusively on three aspects of psychological well-being (Keyes et al., 2002): burnout, affect, and mental health.

The study of employee stress has a longstanding tradition in the occupational-health ­literature (e.g. Sulsky & Smith, 2005). While not frequently studied as an outcome of leadership style or behavior (Skakon et al., 2010), the problems associated with stress that arise due to work and other aspects of life have been studied extensively in regards to other working conditions (see Danna & Griffin, 1999 for a review). Within the transformational-leadership literature, burnout is one of the most frequently measured well-being outcomes; our review will therefore focus on burnout as an aspect of stress (Liu et al., 2010). In keeping with a positive psychology approach (Luthans, 2002; Turner et al., 2002) and recently published work, we also consider affective well-being (emotions) and mental health as outcomes. Our review provides more detail on the studies summarized in Skakon et al. (2010). The focus is on context-free psychological well-being, which excludes context-dependent constructs such as job satisfaction (for a summary of the link with job satisfaction, see Bass & Riggio, 2006).





9.2.1 Effects of transformational leadership on follower burnout


9.2.1.1 Direct relationship?


The majority of studies focusing on the link between a transformational leadership style and employee burnout are correlational in nature. The results of these correlational studies have been equivocal. For example, results differ depending on whether the overall measure of transformational leadership is used or whether it is broken down into component behaviors. The relationships can also differ depending on the burnout dimension that is examined.

One of the earliest studies to examine the connection between transformational leadership and employee burnout hypothesized a positive relationship (Seltzer et al., 1989). The authors suggested several reasons for the connection. For example, a leader’s idealized influence might lead employees to put in longer hours at work and more energy into their work roles. Intellectual stimulation and the uncertainty and risk involved in doing things differently were theorized as a potential threat to well-being, and the focus on group orientation might mean that individual employees could not consider their own needs to the extent necessary to maintain their health. A survey of 277 MBA students was used to test the hypotheses. Controlling for gender, age, and marital status, results showed that stress symptoms were negatively correlated with all four transformational dimensions, and comparatively more negatively correlated with burnout. Multiple-regression analysis also showed that stress and burnout were reduced when supervisors were perceived to be charismatic and individually considerate; however, stress and burnout were higher when a supervisor was perceived as intellectually stimulating. Specifically, a factor analysis of the intellectual-stimulation items produced two factors, one of which (“My supervisor requires that we back up our opinions with good reasoning”) was positively correlated with burnout when controlling for charisma. The authors concluded that while “a part of intellectual stimulation, the component requiring backing opinions with reason is positively associated with burnout and the reporting of stress symptoms … overall the data indicate that a transformational style may help to reduce burnout in general” (Seltzer et al., 1989, p. 184).

Other correlational studies support a direct negative relationship between transform­ational leadership and burnout. A study of Canadian teachers in community colleges found that transformational leadership was negatively related to burnout, and that the effect was stronger than personal factors such as demographics, personality, and ­self-esteem, but not as strong as organizational factors such as job demands, social support, and organizational support (Leithwood et al., 1996). Similarly, a study of adult students enrolled in a Masters of Management program (various occupations) found a negative association between transformational leadership behavior in mentors and job stress in mentees (Sosik & Godshalk, 2000). Controlling for age, job level, job tenure, education level, industry, and mentor gender, findings suggested that transformational leadership in mentors was associated with increased receipt of mentoring functions and decreased job-related stress. Another study, of service-sector employees in Canada, confirmed that transformational leadership was negatively associated with job stress, and that job stress was positively ­associated with burnout (Gill et al., 2006).

Other studies have also investigated the components of transformational leadership ­separately. In a sample of employees and leaders in mental-health teams, employee perceptions of leaders’ charisma (idealized influence), inspirational motivation, and individual consideration (i.e. three dimensions of transformational leadership) were negatively related to the emotional-exhaustion dimension of burnout (Corrigan et al., 2002). Intellectual stimulation was not significantly correlated with employee emotional exhaustion, but was positively correlated with the personal-accomplishment component of burnout (as were inspirational motivation and individual consideration).

A study of 480 senior managers in an Australian law-enforcement organization focused on inspirational motivation and links between this and burnout (Densten, 2005). Structural equation-modeling analyses showed that concept-based inspirational motivation (behaviors communicating standards and expectations) was negatively associated with emotional exhaustion but that there was no relationship between image-based inspirational motivation (the items used to measure this focused on creation of vivid ideas and images) and emotional exhaustion. Image-based inspirational motivation did, however, have a “positive direct effect on personal accomplishment and a negative direct effect on depersonalization” (Densten, 2005, p. 113). The author discusses the possibility that visioning behaviors are negatively associated with burnout because they provide a context within which employees can create meaning in their work, reducing frustration and increasing self-esteem and efficacy. While it is interesting to note that different aspects of inspirational motivation may have differential effects on each of the facets of burnout, the study provides little evidence to rationalize the split between image- and concept-based inspirational motivation.





9.2.1.2 Potential moderators?


The fact that not all studies have found negative associations between transformational leadership and burnout suggests that moderators are present. Generally, studies showing no effects or positive effects have focused on links between specific dimensions of transformational leadership and burnout, have considered other workplace stressors, or have been conducted in different cultures.

Employees in a Norwegian information-technology organization completed a survey asking about transformational leadership behaviors of their supervisors, neuroticism, and burnout. Transformational leadership was not significantly associated with emotional exhaustion, was significantly positively associated with professional efficacy, and was negatively associated with cynicism (Hetland et al., 2007). Interestingly, neuroticism showed stronger associations with the dimensions of burnout than did leadership, and was directly and positively related to exhaustion and cynicism, and negatively related to professional efficacy. This suggests that follower personality might be an important moderator of the effects of transformational leadership on burnout dimensions. Followers with different outlooks on work, arising from their different personality characteristics, may interpret and respond differently to the same transformational leadership behavior.

A study of 601 Finnish nurses and nurse managers (Kanste et al., 2007) considered job status as another potential moderator. With age, employment status, work task, and working hours as controls, transformational leadership was positively associated with personal accomplishment. Interestingly, employment status and work task moderated the effect of transformational leadership on emotional exhaustion and depersonalization such that transformational leadership acted as a buffer against emotional exhaustion and depersonalization; more so for temporary workers than for permanent workers. The authors of this study came to a similar conclusion to that of Hetland et al. (2007), suggesting that “leadership behaviour that works well with one subordinate may not be as efficient with others” (Kanste et al., 2007, p. 737).

The question of whether follower personality will moderate the effects of transformational leadership behavior on follower burnout was investigated using samples of 91 ­human-resources advice-firm employees and 95 dyads of leaders and employees (190 participants total) from several firms in the Netherlands (De Hoogh & Den Hartog, 2009). In both samples, locus of control moderated the relationship between charismatic leadership and burnout such that charisma was negatively related to burnout, yet this relationship was stronger for individuals low on internal locus of control and weaker for individuals high on internal locus of control. In the first study, neuroticism also moderated the relationship between charismatic leadership and burnout; the negative relationship between charismatic leadership and burnout was weaker for followers who were more neurotic. Because charisma is but one dimension of transformational leadership, future research should incorporate the other dimensions in studies with similar methodological strengths.

In one experimental study, transformational and transactional leadership styles were ­manipulated to examine their influence on individuals’ performances on a stressful task, and on perceived social support, self-efficacy beliefs, emotions, and stressor appraisals ­(Lyons & Schneider, 2009). All four transformational components were manipulated through the use of videotaped instructions associated with a stressful task that student participants were about to complete. In the video, the actor depicted either a transformational, transactional, or management-by-exception leadership style. Among other findings, the results showed that the transformational leadership condition was associated with lower threat appraisals and lower negative affect (Lyons & Schneider, 2009). This study appears to support the correlational studies showing a negative relationship between burnout and transformational leadership. The strength of the experimental design used in this study is its high internal validity and ability to establish causation, although this is counterbalanced by the lack of external and ­ecological validity.





9.2.1.3 Mediators?


Unfortunately, little empirical research has been conducted on the mechanisms linking transformational leadership to follower burnout and stress. A study of nurses in a Belgian hospital (Stordeur et al., 2001) controlled for work stressors (physical, psychological, and social) when investigating the relationship between transformational leadership in supervisors and emotional exhaustion in employees. The authors speculated that the absence of any effect for transformational leadership could be due to the fact that leadership may have an indirect effect on burnout. This indirect effect was not tested, but correlations suggested that transformational leadership might affect burnout via its effect on role ambiguity. Job control, social support, and team cohesion are also mentioned as potential mediators.

One study has investigated potential explanatory mechanisms. Liu et al. (2010) found that trust in the leader and self-efficacy both mediated the relationship between transformational leadership and stress in a sample of 745 employees from various ­industries in Beijing and Hong Kong. This study adds to knowledge of the relationship between transformational leadership and employee stress by investigating this in the Chinese ­context. As the authors suggest, “scholars and practitioners cannot simply assume that [transformational leadership], which is effective in Western societies, can be automatically transferred to Chinese societies” (Liu et al., 2010, pp. 470–471).





9.2.2 Effects of transformational leadership on follower affect and mental health


9.2.2.1 Direct relationship?


Organizations have begun to be cognizant not only that reducing employee burnout is necessary but also that increasing positive forms of well-being can be of benefit. One of the first studies to investigate the link between transformational leadership and affect was a lab study looking at “emotional contagion,” or when one person mimicks another’s emotions and thereby actually experiences those emotions (Cherulnik et al., 2001). This study approached the research question with a unique method: facial expressions were coded in a lab setting. Participants were recorded while watching a video of student leaders giving a standardized speech (six tapes were used, representing both charismatic and noncharismatic leadership). The viewers’ facial expressions were coded according to four nonverbal responses: smile, smile intensity, looking away, and seconds looking. The differences between the charismatic and noncharismatic conditions were significant for each outcome. The authors concluded that “expressive nonverbal style generally associated with charismatic leaders can evoke similar, relatively strong and positively toned expressions of emotion from those who are exposed to it” (Cherulnik et al., 2001, p. 2156).

Bono & Ilies (2006) investigated the emotional-contagion hypothesis in leader–follower relationships, and reported the results of four studies. While not focused explicitly on transformational leadership, the first two studies showed that charismatic leaders were perceived as expressing more positive emotions, which is an important link in the purported causation chain between transformational leadership in supervisors and employee affective well-being. Two experimental studies then confirmed the link between leaders’ expressions of positive emotion and followers’ positive moods (Bono & Ilies, 2006). In one experiment, participants watched a video depicting a leader who demonstrated either high positive ­emotions or low positive emotions. The authors noted that the results of this study could be due to the positive emotion expressed by the leader in the video, or could be due to other leader behaviors, such as the articulation of a compelling vision or influence tactics. The leader in the high-positive video was also rated as being more attractive than the leader in the low-positive video. A second experiment was therefore designed to manipulate positive mood independent of these other factors. This experiment was also designed to engage participants (174 university students) in a more relevant and realistic leader–follower experience (see Bono & Ilies, 2006 for details). The findings of this experiment confirmed a positive link between positive emotional expression in the leader and positive mood in the participants. While this study did not address transformational leadership per se, it does confirm that charismatic leaders are viewed as expressing more positive emotions, and that leaders who display more positive emotions do transmit these to their followers.

Two studies conducted in the nonprofit sector confirm a positive relationship between transformational leadership and followers’ emotions. In a cross-sectional survey study of 43 Australian employees, transformational leadership (measured using the transformational leadership scale (TLS): Podsakoff et al., 1990) and affective well-being were significantly and positively associated (McMurray et al., 2010). Another study of musicians in nonprofit orchestras tested the mediating effects of emotion on the transformational leadership–performance relationship (Rowold & Rohmann, 2009). This study suggests that transformational leaders have a positive influence on follower affective well-being by ­eliciting more positive emotions and by decreasing negative emotions.

Overcoming the limitations of cross-sectional data, one experience-sampling study confirmed the link between transformational leadership and affective well-being. In this study of 57 health-care workers, the link between transformational leadership in supervisors and employee emotions was examined (Bono et al., 2007). In addition to the leadership effects, the authors were also interested in emotional regulation and stress. Participants reported their momentary positive (happiness, enthusiasm, and optimism) and negative (anxiety, anger, and irritation) emotions four times a day for 2 weeks, and their perceptions of supervisor transformational leadership were measured 1 month prior to the experience-sampling portion of the study through a survey using the MLQ. Employees who had highly transformational supervisors reported having more positive emotions while at work, but transformational leadership was not linked to negative emotions or emotional regulation. The authors concluded that the “results of this study demonstrate the powerful role that managers and supervisor have on employee emotions” (Bono et al., 2007, p. 1364). Studies appear to converge on finding a positive relationship between transformational leadership and follower positive affect. However, there may also be important conditions under which transformational leadership has a larger effect on employee affect.





9.2.2.2 Potential moderators?


The conditions under which a leader is transformational may play a key role in the strength of the relationship between transformational leadership and employee affect. A paper focused on the interactive effects of procedural justice and transformational leadership on the affective responses of followers reported on three studies using self-esteem and emotions as outcomes (De Cremer, 2006). First, an experiment using vignettes and 69 Dutch undergraduate students showed that the effects of procedural justice on negative affect were stronger in the highly-transformational condition. Transformational leadership moderated this relationship. Importantly, the direct effect of transformational leadership on negative emotion was significant and negative. A second laboratory study was then conducted in which 57 Dutch undergraduate students were immersed in the leadership situation. This study corroborated the findings of Study 1. The third study was a field study designed to complement the first two. Human-resources managers in the Netherlands asked civil servants to participate in a questionnaire. A similar moderating effect was found, whereby the effect of procedural justice on organizational-based self-esteem was stronger when transformational leadership was high. The fact that there were significant interactions between procedural justice and transformational leadership corroborates to some extent our observations of the literature on transformational leadership and burnout. Essentially, these results suggest that organizational factors, such as working conditions, need to be incorporated into studies that examine when transformational leadership is more likely to affect employee affect. We were unable to locate any published studies investigating moderators of the relationship between transformational leadership and employee mental health.





9.2.2.3 Potential mediators?


McColl-Kennedy & Anderson (2002) asked whether emotional reactions to transformational leaders mediate the leadership–performance relationship. They found that transformational leadership had a significant influence on frustration and optimism. The negative influence on frustration appeared to affect performance to a larger degree than did the positive optimism emotion. The results suggest that high transformational leadership is associated with higher optimism, lower transformational leadership is associated with higher levels of frustration, and transformational leadership has an impact on affective well-being.

Another study exploring the leadership–performance linkage looked at employee positive mood as a mediator of this relationship (Tsai et al., 2009). A longitudinal study of 282 employee and supervisor dyads in insurance companies in Taiwan found that transformational leadership had both a direct and an indirect effect on performance via positive mood, based on the theory of emotional contagion. The findings indicated that employee perceptions of higher transformational leadership were associated with more positive moods (e.g. happy, pleased, joyful).

Some studies have begun to address the mechanisms linking transformational leadership in supervisors to follower affect and mental health. A summary of the literature on positive leadership theorized four potential mediators of the transformational leadership–employee psychological well-being relationship: self-efficacy, meaning, trust, and identity ­(Sivanathan et al., 2004). Published studies have reported results related to meaning, self-efficacy, and trust as mediators.

The meaning that employees ascribe to their work has been shown to mediate the relationship between transformational leadership and employee affect and mental health ­(Arnold et al., 2007). Two studies (one in health care and one in the service sector) showed that meaning (a) partially mediated the link between transformational leadership and affective well-being and (b) fully mediated the relationship between transformational leadership and employee mental health, after controlling for humanistic work values. Transformational leadership had a positive effect on employee well-being despite different conceptualizations and measurements of employee well-being (affect and mental health), and in both studies employee perceptions that work is meaningful accounted either partially or fully for this relationship. The conceptualization and measurement of psychological health is an issue that we return to in Section 9.2.3.

In one manuscript, three studies investigating the effects of transformational leadership on employee mental health were reported (Barling et al., 2008). The first investigated the lagged effects (measured with the general health questionnaire (GHQ)): in this 6-week longitudinal study of 52 employees of a Canadian home-heating fuel-delivery service, transformational leadership at Time 1 predicted mental health at Time 2 while controlling for mental health at Time 1. In a second study, the mediating effects of trust in the leader were examined in a cross-sectional sample of 436 employees in a large Canadian telecommunications company. Group-level leadership (aggregated ratings of employees for each leader) and individual-level leadership (also labeled “differentiated leadership” in other work: Nielsen & Daniels, in press) were investigated. Findings indicated that trust in the leader fully mediated the relationship between transformational leadership and employee mental health at the individual level but not the group level. The third study replicated this mediating effect after controlling for positive affect, negative affect, neuroticism, and liking of the manager, bolstering confidence that individual characteristics of employees were not responsible for these results. Study 2 corroborates findings from Liu et al. (2010) using a different conceptualization of employee well-being (mental health versus perceived stress) as the outcome. The longitudinal nature of Study 1 allows a degree of determination with regards to the order of the relationship. However, as we will summarize next, another longitudinal study has not confirmed this causal sequence.

A longitudinal study based on a sample drawn from staff members working in ­elder-care roles in a Danish government service has tested several other mediators, publishing both cross-sectional (Nielsen et al., 2008a, 2009) and longitudinal (Nielsen & Munir, 2009; Nielsen et al., 2008) results. One of the cross-sectional studies (Time 1), using 447 Danish elder-care workers, tested involvement, influence, and meaning as mediators of the relationship between transformational leadership and affective well-being (Nielsen et al., 2008a). Structural equation-modeling analyses showed that meaningfulness was the only variable that partially mediated this relationship. In another cross-sectional report (Time 2) on 274 Danish elder-care workers, the mediating mechanisms of self- and team-efficacy were tested (Nielsen et al., 2009). The results showed that both team- and self-efficacy fully mediated the relationship between transformational leadership and employee affective well-being.

In longitudinal reports based on the 188 participants who completed the study at both points (18 months apart), experience of a meaningful work environment, role clarity, and opportunities for development all partially mediated the relationship between transformational leadership and employee affective well-being (Nielsen et al., 2008). No direct relationship was found between transformational leadership at Time 1 and employee affective well-being at Time 2, suggesting that the effects of transformational leadership on affective well-being are indirect and more complex than previous studies had ­suggested. There was a reciprocal relationship between perceptions of transformational leadership and affective well-being, such that affective well-being at Time 1 influenced Time 2 ratings of transformational leadership. This parallels the findings of another study, which utilized a different conceptualization of leadership (van Dierendonck et al., 2004).

Another report on the longitudinal data from these 188 Danish elder-care workers found that followers’ self-efficacy fully mediated the relationship between supervisors’ transformational leadership style and employee affective well-being at Time 2, but not longitudinally (Nielsen & Munir, 2009). This sample was also used to demonstrate a longitudinal link between transformational leadership and depression symptoms ­(Munir et al., 2010); the study spoke to the links between supervisory transformational leadership and employee mental health. Findings showed that transformational leadership was associated with reduced depression in followers both cross-sectionally and prospectively.

Finally, a recent study investigated the impact of group and differentiated transformational leadership on multiple measures of employee well-being (intention to leave, job satisfaction, burnout, sleep quality, and vitality) (Nielsen & Daniels, in press). Mediators ­investigated included group and differentiated working conditions of meaningful work, social support, cohesion, and role clarity. The findings showed that differentiated meaningful work, social support, cohesion, and role conflict all mediated relationships between differentiated transformational leadership and at least one of the well-being outcomes. Meaningful work and social support mediated most relationships. This study confirmed the results of Barling et al. (2008), in that the effect of differentiated transformational leadership (i.e. at the individual level) was stronger than the effect of group-level transformational leadership. The authors suggested that the reason for this finding is that employee well-being outcomes are individual-level variables, so individual perceptions of leadership are more relevant.





9.2.3 Critique and future directions


One of the strengths of the literature on the link between transformational leadership and employee psychological well-being lies in the diversity of samples that have been used in these studies. Although research samples have been drawn from several nations and occupations, the literature is somewhat fragmented through different disciplines and journals (e.g. nursing, hospitality, organizational studies, psychology, psychiatry). This makes it challenging for researchers to focus their efforts and have a complete understanding of the work on this topic.

This review of the research linking transformational leadership to well-being outcomes for employees illustrates four key issues that should be considered in any future work in this area: methods, moderation and mediation, measures, and other factors affecting stress outcomes as controls.

Much of the research on the effects of transformational leadership on employee psychological well-being has been survey-based, used cross-sectional research design, and been subject to monomethod, monosource bias. This is particularly true in studies focused on burnout as the outcome. Experimental and longitudinal work is rare, but it is increasingly necessary if we want to disentangle the nature of this relationship. Because relationships between stress and leadership ratings might well be reciprocal, experimental and longitudinal work is now necessary to overcome the limitations imposed by monomethod bias (Podsakoff et al., 2003). While experimental studies lack ecological validity, this method allows causation to be established and theoretical tenets to be tested. In conjunction with the real-world applicability of longitudinal field studies, our knowledge of the causal links between transformational leadership and employee well-being would be enhanced with more experimental work.

Utilization of “an experimental setting would allow for more definite causal conclusions, [but] a dependent variable such as burnout is hard to capture in a lab context. At best, one can capture stress reactions or more specific aspects of burnout (e.g. emotional states, lowered efficacy) in a lab study” (De Hoogh & Den Hartog, 2009, p. 1065). This is probably why in the stream of research focused on employee affect and mental health there are more experimental (Bono & Ilies, 2006; Cherulnik et al., 2001; De Cremer, 2006), experience-sampling (Bono et al., 2007), and longitudinal (Nielsen & Munir, 2009; Nielsen et al., 2008) studies, adding to the strength of causal conclusions that can be drawn. The empirical research that has been conducted in this regard seems less equivocal in its findings than studies investigating burnout as the outcome, pointing to the conclusion that transformational leadership is linked with better well-being (increased positive affect and better mental health) for employees.

We believe that there may be creative ways to study stress outcomes for employees, by focusing on physiological reactions in the laboratory setting. Investigating stress outcomes by measuring salivary cortisol ratings, blood pressure, or other physical manifestations of psychological stress in an experimental paradigm would be very interesting and would advance knowledge of causation in this relationship.

We also suggest that future research should investigate a wider range of moderators of the relationship between transformational leadership and employee psychological well-being. We need “research … that integrates transformational leadership theory with contingency theories to explore if there are particular conditions under which transformational leaders are more or less effective” (Lyons & Schneider, 2009, p. 747). While many studies have found negative relationships between various components of transformational leadership and burnout (Corrigan et al., 2002; De Hoogh & Den Hartog, 2009; Densten, 2005; Gill et al., 2006; Hetland et al., 2007; Kanste et al., 2007; Leithwood et al., 1996; Lyons & Schneider, 2009; Seltzer et al., 1989; Sosik & Godshalk, 2000), there have been some equivocal ­findings. Several studies have found no relationship or mixed evidence, depending on the component of transformational leadership and the component of burnout being investigated (Corrigan et al., 2002; Densten, 2005; Gill et al., 2010; Hetland et al., 2007; Seltzer et al., 1989; Stordeur et al., 2001). Studies that employed experimental methodologies seem to confirm a negative relationship: employees with transformational supervisors report less burnout (De Hoogh & Den Hartog, 2009). However, this relationship depends upon employee personality to some extent, and burnout is not something that can be easily modeled in an experiment. Hence, the best measure with which to approximate this within a lab might be threat appraisal (Lyons & Schneider, 2009).

Thus far, one study has investigated employee personality (De Hoogh & Den Hartog, 2009) and one study has looked at employment status (Kanste et al., 2007) as a moderator. Other contextual moderators might also be considered, such as type of organization, whether a crisis looms, and team dynamics (Lyons & Schneider, 2009). Individual factors such as employee motivation and career stage could also be theorized to influence this relationship. It would be especially useful for researchers to focus on how specific components of transformational leadership affect specific components of burnout. For example, intellectual stimulation appears to have mixed effects on employee stress levels, which may suggest that the relationship between this particular component and employee stress is more susceptible to the influence of employee characteristics than other component of transformational leadership. For example, an employee experiencing stressors from home as well as work might be more susceptible to negative outcomes of being asked to think of new ways of doing things. In addition, these relationships might be affected by short-term versus long-term measurement issues. Some researchers have suggested that anomalous findings, such as that transformational leadership is negatively associated with sleep quality (Nielsen & Daniels, in press), could be explained by the difficulties inherent in measuring short-term and long-term effects. In other words, some transformational behaviors might initially cause a decrease in certain employee well-being indicators, but in the long term the effect might actually be positive.

Testing of mediators is more often seen in studies of the relationship between transformational leadership and affect or mental health (Arnold et al., 2007; Barling et al., 2008; Nielsen et al., 2008, 2009; Tsai et al., 2009). Fewer studies test potential mediating mechanisms related to stress outcomes (Liu et al., 2010; Stordeur et al., 2001). The focus on mediating mechanisms that link transformational leadership to stress and burnout for employees is another area in which more research could be usefully conducted.

In terms of measurement, utilizing burnout as an outcome measure is potentially ­problematic, because one aspect of burnout could actually be framed as a positive ­well-being outcome (personal accomplishment), while the other two are negative (emotional exhaustion and depersonalization). Studies focusing on the overall measure may obfuscate important differences in the relationship between transformational leadership and each dimension of burnout, particularly when considered in addition to potential moderating effects. There may also be important differences between affect and ­mental-health outcomes. Affect may be more fleeting than mental health, hence less stable in terms of our findings when utilizing cross-sectional methods. Mental health may be subject to longer-term influences from multiple avenues (work, home, friends, finances, etc.) and be less fleeting than affect. Therefore, findings regarding the relationship between transformational leadership and these different conceptualizations of employee psychological well-being may not generalize.

Future research can expand the focus in terms of outcomes, while also using methodologies that improve our ability to establish causation. Studies that incorporate various aspects of well-being in one paper would be useful (e.g. Neilsen & Daniels, in press). Another possibility is to use stress appraisal as an outcome instead of burnout, which would allow researchers to use experimental methods. In regards to the general conceptualization of employee well-being, there is an opportunity to incorporate more positive measures of health (Hofmann & Tetrick, 2003; Snyder & Lopez, 2002). Positive affect and positive mood are two examples that have been incorporated in this literature stream. Other possibilities include the notions of hope, gratitude, optimal functioning, vigor, ­optimism, and psychological capital (Dutton & Glynn, 2008; Luthans, 2002). Detangling how transformational leadership impacts on negative health outcomes versus positive outcomes is another direction that would be useful.

Finally, there is a large body of work investigating other workplace stressors, and future studies on the link between leadership styles and employee stress should control for these where possible. One study that explicitly controlled for these found no relationship between transformational leadership and burnout (Stordeur et al., 2001), and another found that organizational factors were more strongly correlated to burnout than leadership (Leithwood et al., 1996). While findings from these studies must be interpreted with caution due to cross-sectional methodology, we suggest that future research will be able to draw stronger conclusions about the role of transformational leadership in the psychological well-being outcomes of employees if organizational stressors are also considered.





9.3 Effects of Transformational Leadership on Leader Stress and Psychological Well-being


The managerial role is demanding, and individuals filling this role can be “prone to high levels of occupational stress” (Sparks et al., 2001, p. 501). According to one study, 88% of leaders considered work to be their primary source of stress; only 28% of these individuals believed that their employers were providing adequate resources to enable them to cope effectively (Campbell et al., 2007). Workplace factors such as managing change, mergers, and new technologies have been examined in terms of leader well-being, yet the ­importance of enacting positive leadership styles has not garnered much research attention, despite the fact that a number of authors have argued that it would be an interesting question to examine, with important practical implications. De Hoogh & Den Hartog (2009) note that “the potentially exhausting task of leading others also suggests leader burnout as an interesting area of research” (p. 1065). There have been only two studies that we could find examining the link between enacting transformational leadership behaviors and leader psychological well-being. These two studies focused on stress outcomes for the leaders.

First, a study of 236 leaders of 54 mental-health teams looked at the association between leader self-reported transformational leadership and burnout (Corrigan et al., 2002). Transformational leadership was broken down into its four components (charisma, inspirational motivation, intellectual stimulation, and individualized consideration) and burnout into its three components (emotional exhaustion, depersonalization, and personal accomplishment). Correlations between these factors showed that there was a significant positive association between all four transformational dimensions and personal accomplishment; a significant negative relationship between charisma, inspirational motivation, and individual consideration and depersonalization; and a significant negative association between charisma and emotional exhaustion. Correlations between intellectual stimulation and depersonalization and between inspirational motivation, intellectual stimulation, and individual consideration and emotional exhaustion were not significant. One strength of this study was that the researchers investigated differential relationships. This pattern of correlations might suggest that different dimensions of transformational leadership have differential effects on each aspect of burnout for leaders. However, monomethod and monosource bias is an important limitation. For example, there is no way to assess whether the significant correlation between charisma and emotional exhaustion is due to a third unmeasured variable pertaining to emotions. Because perceptions of leader charisma have been shown to be associated with the expression of more positive emotion (Bono & Ilies, 2006), the possibility that an emotional component accounts for this relationship is plausible. The fact that the only cognitively-focused component (intellectual stimulation) did not associate significantly with depersonalization could also be a result of emotional processes. Most importantly, there is no way to disentangle whether transformational leadership enactment is an antecedent of burnout or vice versa. It is highly plausible that those leaders who feel more personal accomplishment naturally rate themselves more positively on any leadership instrument. It would have been interesting if the authors had reported follower ratings of leadership and correlated these with the leader ratings of burnout, especially considering that there was a low correlation between follower and leader ratings of transformational leadership.

A second study looked at the relationship between transformational leadership styles and burnout in a sample of hospitality managers in Cyprus (Zopiatis & Constanti, 2010). These researchers were interested in whether “the style of leadership that one adopts … leaves the leader more vulnerable to burnout” (p. 301). Using the same measurement instruments, a similar pattern of association as in Corrigan et al. (2002) was found in this sample of 131 participants. The overall measure of transformational leadership was significantly and negatively correlated with emotional exhaustion and depersonalization and significantly and positively correlated with personal accomplishment.

These two studies both examined leader stress, but another alternative would be to investigate affective outcomes. It is likely that leaders who behave with integrity, who show care and compassion to employees, and who are effective at leading their teams to achieve goals will generally feel good about their approach to their leadership role (Barling et al., 2008), so increased affective well-being might result when a leader is able to ­successfully enact transformational behaviors. Unfortunately, the cross-sectional research design of the two studies poses a significant limitation to the conclusions that can be drawn; ­managers who are experiencing lower levels of burnout have more resources to spend the time and energy to enact transformational behaviors.





9.3.1 Leader stress and transformational leadership: a reciprocal relationship?


Adaptive cost theory (Cohen, 1978) implies that stress influences the probability that a leader will engage in transformational leadership. According to this theory, cognitive resources are reduced when individuals try to adapt to stressful conditions. As a result, the stressed individual begins to prioritize; most people focus their attention on their own needs and become less sensitive to the needs of others. Therefore, stressed leaders will be less transformational, or may focus solely on aspects of transformational leadership that they consider to be less demanding. Research has also suggested that decision-makers who experience high levels of stress have a tendency to reduce the amount of information that they use when weighing options, and that these individuals also endeavor to control situations (Staw et al., 1981). These behaviors are also incompatible with the precepts of transformational leadership, which require that leaders consider employee input and needs (i.e. individualized consideration) and use novel information and approaches (i.e. intellectual stimulation). As such, stress and transformational leadership may be incompatible.

The question remains: how can organizations encourage leaders who are under stress to engage in transformational leadership? Given the positive outcomes of transformational leadership in terms of employee attitudes and performance outcomes for individuals, groups, and organizations (Bass & Riggio, 2006), doing everything possible to encourage supervisors to be transformational would appear to be a worthwhile goal. Can research identify for which managers enacting transformational leadership is stressful and why? Are there aspects of leader psychological (mental) well-being that make it more likely they will enact transformational leadership?

The job demands–resources theory (Demerouti et al., 2001) may help to explain why enacting transformational leadership behaviors might impact on leaders’ psychological well-being. According to this theory, individuals who face additional demands without possessing sufficient resources will experience heightened levels of stress. Although transformational leaders may benefit from the productivity and attitudinal improvements of their followers, transformational leadership may also be conceptualized as a demand insofar as it requires leaders’ emotional labor and time to enact it. Certain leaders may possess characteristics that make this style easier to enact than it is for others; for example, extroverted leaders may find communicating a vision and providing individual attention to employees easier than introverted leaders. Finally, the environment in which one is leading may also affect whether this leadership style is stressful to enact. While there may be other factors within the individual leader, their followers, and the context that might affect this relationship, here we briefly summarize a few potential variables for future exploration (for a summary, see Connelly & Arnold, 2011).

Emotional labor may help to explain the relationship between enacting transformational leadership and leader well-being. Emotional labor describes the processes required for ­individuals to manage their feelings and expressions (Brotheridge & Grandey, 2002). This behavior occurs when people display or suppress emotions that do not match their actual feelings (Hochschild, 1983). Thus far, there has been little research on the role of ­emotional labor in effective leadership. However, we expect that emotional labor will ­significantly affect a leader’s capacity to engage in transformational leadership behaviors, because they involve such close interpersonal interactions with employees (e.g. treating employees according to thier individual needs and communicating an optimistic strategic vision; ­Gardner et al., 2009; Humphrey et al., 2008).

Time demands are also a potential mediator of this relationship. For example, intellectual stimulation requires time in which to formulate ways of enabling employees to learn from their errors or missteps. Although a leader could intervene and complete tasks quickly by themselves or save some time by simply demonstrating the correct procedure to employees, intellectual stimulation requires that leaders provide a supportive context in which followers can learn independently. Individual consideration also requires a ­substantial time commitment. The leader must get to know each follower as a person in order to understand what developmental opportunities will be appropriate for them, which is ­significantly time-consuming. This is especially true when a leader has a large span of control.

In addition to these mediating mechanisms, we suspect there are several potential moderators of the relationship between enacting transformational leadership and leader psychological well-being. These moderators can be conceptualized as individual leader characteristics, follower characteristics, and context characteristics. In terms of leader characteristics, there are aspects of personality that could make enacting transformational behaviors inherently less stressful. Although many different personality traits exist, there are five that have received considerable research attention (e.g. Digman, 1990; McCrae, 1992). Three of these traits are plausible moderators: extroversion (tendency to be confident and outgoing); agreeableness (tendency to be friendly and caring); and openness to new experience (tendency to try new things and embrace change) (Bakker et al., 2006). Personality has been shown to be related to transformational leadership (Judge & Bono, 2000). For example, leaders with high levels of extroversion may find it easier to talk to employees about their vision (i.e. inspirational motivation). Leaders with high levels of agreeableness may be more likely to interact with employees (i.e. individualized consideration). Leaders with high levels of openness to new experiences may be more able to seek out new ways of approaching problems (i.e. intellectual stimulation). Overall, individuals who are highly extroverted, agreeable, and open to new experience should be less likely to experience stress as a result of the demands of enacting a transformational leadership style.

The reciprocal relationship between perceptions of transformational leadership in supervisors and employee well-being (i.e. the finding that employee affective well-being at Time 1 was associated with ratings of transformational leadership of supervisors at Time 2 in a longitudinal survey study conducted by Nielsen and colleagues) lends empirical support to the suggestion that employee characteristics are an important moderator of the relationship between enacting a transformational leadership style and leader psychological well-being. “Leaders may find it hard to lead the way and make employees to perform ‘beyond the call of duty’ if they [those employees] have no energy and engagement in work. Conversely, employees with high levels of energy and enthusiasm may encourage managers to take the lead, create a vision, and make an effort to develop his or her employees” (Nielsen et al., 2008, p. 27). Hence, we suspect aspects of follower personality will moderator this relationship.

Finally, with regards to context, leadership training is a potential resource (Kelloway & Barling, 2010) and moderator of this relationship. Considering that receiving training on how to enact transformational leadership behaviors increases leaders’ psychological well-being (McKee & Kelley, 2010), and considering that training increases self-efficacy (Bandura, 1978), it is likely that the relationship between enacting transformational ­leadership and leader stress is moderated by the amount of training a leader has received. Leaders who receive transformational leadership training will likely experience less stress when they enact this leadership style than leaders who do not receive training.





9.4 Conclusion


There is great opportunity for further research into the linkages between transformational leadership in leaders and the psychological well-being of followers and leaders. Studies that incorporate moderators and mediators of these relationships are necessary in order to fully understand when and how transformational leadership affects psychological well-being—both for followers and for leaders. Using experimental and longitudinal designs, as well as improved and varied measures tapping into positive measures of well-being, will advance the field. The link between transformational leadership and leader well-being is particularly ripe for exploration. Indeed, studies should investigate the reciprocal links between leader and employee well-being and focus on transformational leadership as both a cause and an effect.

This chapter has provided a critical overview of the existing research on the relationship between transformational leadership and the psychological well-being of followers and leaders. We have presented an agenda for future research that focuses on further investigation of moderators and mediators of these relationships and the effects of enacting this style on leader psychological well-being, and we have addressed methodological issues that relate to this important stream of research. Such further research is necessary for the benefit of leaders, their followers, and the organizations in which they work.





References


Alimo-Metcalfe, B. & Alban-Metcalfe, R.J. (2001). The development of a new transformational leadership questionnaire. Journal of Occupational and Organizational Psychology, 74(1), 1–27.

Antonakis, J. (2012). Transformational and charismatic leadership. In D.V. Day & J. Antonakis, ­editors. The Nature of Leadership, 2nd edition. Washington, DC: SAGE. pp. 256–288.

Arnold, K.A., Turner, N., Barling, J., Kelloway, E.K., & McKee, M.C. (2007). Transformational leadership and psychological well-being: the mediating role of the meaning of work. Journal of Occupational Health Psychology, 12(3), 193–203.

Avolio, B.J. (1999). Full leadership development: building the vital forces in organizations. Thousand Oaks: SAGE.

Avolio, B.J. & Bass, B.M. (1995). Individual consideration viewed at multiple levels of analysis: a multi-level framework for examining the diffusion of transformational leadership. Leadership Quarterly, 6(2), 199–218.

Avolio, B.J., Bass, B.M., & Jung, D.I. (1999). Re-examining the components of transformational and transactional leadership using the Multifactor Leadership Questionnaire. Journal of Occupational and Organizational Psychology, 72, 441–462.

Avolio, B.J., Waldman, D.A., & Yammarino, F.J. (1991). Leading in the 1990s: the four I’s of transformational leadership. Journal of European Industrial Training, 15(4), 9–16.

Bakker, A.B., Van Der Zee, K.I., Lewig, K.A., & Dollard, M.F. (2006). The relationship between the big five personality factors and burnout: a study among volunteer counselors. The Journal of Social Psychology, 146(1), 31–50.

Barling, J., Turner, N., Kelloway, E.K., Sivanathan, N., & Loughlin, C. (2008). Transformational ­leadership and employee well-being. In J. Barling, chair. New Directions in Work and ­Well-being. Paper presented at the British Psychological Society’s Divison of Occupational Psychology Conference.

Bass, B.M. (1985). Leadership and Performance beyond Expectations. New York: Free Press.

Bass, B.M. (1998). Transformational Leadership: Industrial, Military, and Educational Impact. Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates.

Bass, B.M. & Avolio, B.J. (1993). Transformational leadership: a response to critiques. In M.M. Chemers & R. Ayman, editors. Leadership Theory and Research: Perspectives and Directions. San Diego, CA: Academic Press. pp. 49–80.

Bass, B.M. & Avolio, B.J. (2000). MLQ Multifactor Leadership Questionnaire, 2nd edition. Redwood City, CA: Mind Garden.

Bass, B.M. & Avolio, B.J., editors. (1994). Improving Organizational Effectiveness through Transformational Leadership. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage.

Bass, B.M., Avolio, B.J., & Atwater, L. (1996). The transformational and transactional leadership of men and women. Applied Psychology: An International Review, 45(1), 5–34.

Bass, B.M. & Riggio, R.E. (2006). Transformational Leadership, 2nd edition. Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum.

Bono, J.E., Foldes, H.J., Vinson, G., & Muros, J.P. (2007). Workplace emotions: the role of supervision and leadership. Journal of Applied Psychology, 92(5), 1357–1367.

Bono, J.E. & Ilies, R. (2006). Charisma, positive emotions and mood contagion. Leadership Quarterly, 17, 317–334.

Brotheridge, C.M. & Grandey, A.A. (2002). Emotional labor and burnout: comparing two perspectives of “people work”. Journal of Vocational Behavior, 60(1), 17–39.

Campbell, M., Innis Bates, J., Marin, A., & Meddings, K. (2007). The stress of leadership. Center for Creative Leadership. Retrieved from http://www.ccl.org.

Carless, S.A., Wearing, A.J., & Mann, L. (2000). A short measure of transformational leadership. Journal of Business and Psychology, 14(3), 389–405.

Cherulnik, P.D., Donley, K.A., Wiewel, T.S.R., & Miller, S.R. (2001). Charimsa is contagious: the effect of leaders’ charimsa on observers’ affect. Journal of Applied Social Psychology, 31(10), 2149–2159.

Cohen, S. (1978). Environmental load and the allocation of attention. In A. Baum, J.E. Singer, & S. Valins, editors. Advances in Environmental Psychology. Hillsdale, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates.

Connelly, C.E. & Arnold, K.A. (2011). Transformational leadership and leader stress: a model of reciprocal effects. Paper presented at the Academy of Management Conference, San Antonio, TX.

Cooper, C.L. & Payne, R. (1991). Personality and Stress: Individual Differences in the Stress Process. Chichester, UK: John Wiley.

Corrigan, P.W., Diwan, S., Campion, J., & Rashid, F. (2002). Transformational leadership and the mental health team. Administration and Policy in Mental Health, 30(2), 97–108.

Danna, K. & Griffin, R.W. (1999). Health and well-being in the work-place: a review and synthesis of the literature. Journal of Management, 25, 357–384.

De Cremer, D. (2006). When authorities influence followers’ affect: the interactive effect of procedural justice and transformational leadership. European Journal of Work and Organizational Psychology, 15(3), 322–351.

De Hoogh, A.H.B. & Den Hartog, D.N. (2009). Neuroticism and locus of control as moderators of the relationship between charismatic and autocratic leadership with burnout. Journal of Applied Psychology, 94(4), 1058–1067.

Demerouti, E., Bakker, A.B., Nachreiner, F., & Schaufeli, W.B. (2001). The job demands-resources model of burnout. Journal of Applied Psychology, 86(3), 499–512.

Densten, I.L. (2005). The relationship between visioning behaviours of leaders and follower burnout. British Journal of Management, 16, 105–118.

Desvaux, G. & Devillard-Hoellinger, S. (2008). Women Matter 2: Female Leadership, a Competitive Edge for the Future. Paris: McKinsey & Company.

Desvaux, G., Devillard-Hoellinger, S., & Baumgarten, P. (2007). Women Matter: Gender Diversity, a Corporate Performance Driver. Paris: McKinsey & Company.

Digman, J.M. (1990). Personality structure: emergence of the five-factor model. Annual Review of Psychology, 41, 417–440.

Dutton, J.E. & Glynn, M.A. (2008). Positive organizational scholarship. In J. Barling & C.L. Cooper, editors. The SAGE Handbook of Organizational Behavior. Volume 1: Micro Approaches. UK: Sage Publications. pp. 693–712.

Eagly, A.E., Johannesen-Schmidt, M.C., & van Engen, M.L. (2003). Transformational, transactional, and laissez-faire leadership styles: a meta-analysis comparing women and men. Psychological Bulletin, 129(4), 569–591.

Gardner, W.L., Fischer, D., & Hunt, J.G. (2009). Emotional labor and leadership: a threat to authenticity? The Leadership Quarterly, 20, 466–482.

Gardner, W.L., Lowe, K.B., Moss, T.W., Mahoney, K.T., & Cogliser, C.C. (2010). Scholarly leadership of the study of leadership: a review of The Leadership Quarterly’s second decade, 2000–2009. The Leadership Quarterly, 12, 922–958.

Gilbreath, B. & Benson, P.G. (2004). The contribution of supervisor behaviour to employee psychological well-being. Work & Stress, 18(3), 255–266.

Gill, A.S., Flaschner, A.B., & Bhutani, S. (2010). The impact of transformational leadership and empowerment on employee job stress. Business and Economics Journal, 1–11. Retrieved from http://astonjournals.com/bej.

Gill, A.S., Flaschner, A.B., & Shachar, M. (2006). Mitigating stress and burnout by implementing transformational leadership. International Journal of Contemporary Hospitality Management, 18(6), 469–481.

Hater, J.J. & Bass, B.M. (1988). Superiors’ evaluations and subordinates’ perceptions of transformational and transactional leadership. Journal of Applied Psychology, 73(4), 695–702.

Hetland, H., Sandal, G.M., & Johnsen, T.B. (2007). Burnout in the information technology sector: does leadership matter. European Journal of Work and Organizational Psychology, 16(1), 58–75.

Hochschild, A.R. (1983). The managed heart: commercialization of human feeling. Berkeley, CA: University of California Press.

Hofmann, D.A. & Tetrick, L.E., editors. (2003). Health and Safety in Organizations. San Fransisco: Jossey Bass.

Humphrey, R.H., Pollack, J.M., & Hawver, T. (2008). Leading with emotional labor. Journal of Managerial Psychology, 23(2), 151–168.

Judge, T.A. & Bono, J.E. (2000). Five factor model of personality and transformational leadership. Journal of Applied Psychology, 85(5), 751–765.

Judge, T.A. & Piccolo, R.F. (2004). Transformational and transactional leadership: a meta-analytic test of their relative validity. Journal of Applied Psychology, 89(5), 755–768.

Kanste, O., Kyngas, H., & Nikkila, J. (2007). The relationship between multidimensional leadership and burnout among nursing staff. Journal of Nursing Management, 15, 731–739.

Kelloway, E.K. & Barling, J. (2010). Leadership development as an intervention in occupational health psychology. Work & Stress, 24, 260–279.

Keyes, C.L., Shmotkin, D., & Ryff, C.D. (2002). Optimizing well-being: the empirical encounter of two traditions. Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, 82(6), 1007–1022.

Landeweerd, J.A. & Boumans, N.P.G. (1994). The effect of work dimensions and need for autonomy on nurses work satisfaction and health. Journal of Occupational and Organizational Psychology, 67, 207–217.

Leithwood, K., Menzies, T., Jantzi, D., & Leithwood, J. (1996). School restructuring, transformational leadership and the amelioration of teacher burnout. Anxiety, Stress and Coping: An International Journal, 9(3), 199–215.

Liu, J., Siu, O., & Shi, K. (2010). Transformational leadership and employee well-being: the ­mediating role of trust in leader and self-efficacy. Applied Psychology: An International Review, 59(3), 454–479.

Lowe, K.B. & Gardner, W.L. (2000). Ten years of The Leadership Quarterly: contributions and ­challenges for the future. The Leadership Quarterly, 11, 459–514.

Luthans, F. (2002). The need for and meaning of positive organizational behavior. Journal of Organizational Behavior, 23, 695–706.

Lyons, J.B. & Schneider, T.R. (2009). The effects of leadership style on stress outcomes. The Leadership Quarterly, 20, 737–748.

McColl-Kennedy, J.R. & Anderson, R.D. (2002). Impact of leadership style and emotions on subordinate performance. The Leadership Quarterly, 13, 545–559.

McCrae, R.R. (1992). The five factor model: issues and applications. Journal of Personality, 60(2).

McKee, M.C. & Kelley, E. (2010). Training leaders enhances their well-being. Paper presented at the Academy of Management Conference.

McMurray, A.J., Pirola-Merlo, A., Sarros, J.C., & Islam, M.M. (2010). Leadership, climate, psychological capital, commitment, and wellbeing in a non-profit organization. Leadership & Organization Development Journal, 31(5), 436–457.

Munir, F., Nielsen, K., & Carneiro, I.G. (2010). Transformational leadership and depressive symptoms: aprospective study. Journal of Affective Disorders, 120, 235–239.

Nielsen, K. & Daniels, K. (in press). Does shared and differentiated transformational leadership ­predict followers’ working conditions and well-being? The Leadership Quarterly.

Nielsen, K. & Munir, F. (2009). How do transformational leaders influence followers’ affective well-being? Exploring the mediating role of self-efficacy. Work & Stress, 23(4), 313–329.

Nielsen, K., Randall, R., Yarker, J., & Brenner, S.-O. (2008). The effects of transformational leadership on followers’ perceived work characteristics and psychological well-being: a longitudinal study. Work & Stress, 22(1), 16–32.

Nielsen, K., Yarker, J., Brenner, S.-O., Randall, R., & Borg, V. (2008). The importance of transformational leadeship style for the well-being of employees working with older people. Journal of Advanced Nursing, 63(5), 465–475.

Nielsen, K., Yarker, J., Randall, R., & Munir, F. (2009). The mediating effects of team and self-efficacay on the relationship between transformational leadership, and job satisfaction and psychological well-being in healthcare professionals: a cross-sectional survey questionnaire. International Journal of Nursing Studies, 46, 1236–1244.

Podsakoff, P.M., MacKenzie, S.B., Lee, J., & Podsakoff, N.P. (2003). Common method biases in behavioral research: a critical review of the literature and recommended remedies. Journal of Applied Psychology, 88(5), 879–903.

Podsakoff, P.M., MacKenzie, S.B., Moorman, R.H., & Fetter, R. (1990). Transformational leader behaviors and their effects on followers’ trust in leader, satisfaction, and organizational citizenship behaviors. Leadership Quarterly, 1(2), 107–142.

Rafferty, A.E. & Griffin, M.A. (2004). Dimensions of transformational leadership: conceptual and empirical extensions. The Leadership Quarterly, 15(3), 329–354.

Rafferty, A.E. & Griffin, M.A. (2006). Refining individual consideration: distinguishing developmental leadership and supportive leadership. Journal of Occupational & Organizational Psychology, 79(1), 37–61.

Rowold, J. & Rohmann, A. (2009). Transformational and transactional leadership styles, followers’ positive and negative emotions, and performance in German nonprofit orchestras. Nonprofit Management & Leadership, 20(1), 41–59.

Seltzer, J., Numerof, R.E., & Bass, B.M. (1989). Transformational leadership: is it a source of more or less burn-out and stress? Journal of Health and Human Resources Administration, 12, 174–185.

Sivanathan, N., Arnold, K.A., Turner, N., & Barling, J. (2004). Leading well: transformational ­leadership and well-being. In A. Linley & S. Joseph, editors. Positive Psychology in Practice. Hoboken, NJ: Wiley. pp. 241–255.

Skakon, J., Nielsen, K., Borg, V., & Guzman, J. (2010). Are leaders’ well-being, behaviours and style associated with the affective well-being of their employees? A systematic review of three decades of research. Work & Stress, 24(2), 107–139.

Snyder, C.R. & Lopez, S.J. (2002). Handbook of Positive Psychology. London: Oxford University Press.

Sosik, J.J. & Godshalk, V.M. (2000). Leadership styles, mentoring functions received, and job-related stress: a conceptual model and preliminary study. Journal of Organizational Behavior, 21, 365–390.

Sparks, K., Faragher, B., & Cooper, C.L. (2001). Well-being and occupational health in the 21st century workplace. Journal of Occupational & Organizational Psychology, 74, 489–509.

Staw, B., Sandelands, L.E., & Dutton, J.E. (1981). Threat-rigidity effects in organizational behavior: a multilevel analysis. Administrative Science Quarterly, 26, 501–524.

Stordeur, S., D’hoore, W., & Vandenberghe, C. (2001). Leadership, organizational stress, and emotional exhaustion among hospital nursing staff. Journal of Advanced Nursing, 35(4), 533–542.

Sulsky, L. & Smith, C. (2005). Work Stress. Toronto, ON: Thomson Wadsworth.

Tepper, B.J. (2000). Consequences of abusive supervision. Academy of Management Journal, 43(2), 178–190.

Tsai, W.-C., Chen, H.-W., & Cheng, J.-W. (2009). Employee positive moods as a mediator linking transformational leadership and employee work outcomes. The International Journal of Human Resource Management, 20(1), 206–219.

Turner, N., Barling, J., & Zacharatos, A. (2002). Positive psychology at work. In C.R. Snyder & S.J. Lopez, editors. The Handbook of Positive Psychology. NY: Oxford University Press. pp. 715–728.

van Dierendonck, D., Haynes, C., Borrill, C., & Stride, C. (2004). Leadership behaviour and ­subordinate wellbeing. Journal of Occupational Health Psychology, 9, 165–175.

Yammarino, F.J. & Bass, B.M. (1990). Transformational leadership and multiple levels of analysis. Human Relations, 43(10), 975–995.

Zopiatis, A. & Constanti, P. (2010). Leadership styles and burnout: is there an association? International Journal of Contemporary Hospitality Management, 22(3), 300–320.





10


Making the Mindful Leader: Cultivating Skills for Facing Adaptive Challenges


Jeremy Hunter and Michael Chaskalson

If you know others and you know yourself,

you will not be imperiled in a hundred battles,

if you do not know others but you know yourself,

you will win one and lose one,

if you do not know others and do not know yourself,

you will be imperiled in every single battle.

Sun Tzu, The Art of War

We should base our decisions on awareness rather than on mechanical habit. That is, we act on a keen appreciation for the essential factors that make each situation unique instead of from conditioned response.

Warfighting: The US Marine Corps Book of Strategy





10.1 Introduction


Human civilization has always faced the challenge of adapting to change. Changes in ­markets, shifting political alliances, financial collapses, uncertain energy sources, and natural disasters have always been part of the landscape that people have had to wrestle with. However, at this point in history, it appears that the intensity and demands of change are particularly complex and severe. Globalization creates new markets and wealth, but also competition and dislocation. Natural disasters in Thailand impact tightly interwoven supply chains and debilitate manufacturing in Ohio. Information technologies speed up the tempo of nearly everything, making the pace of life relentless. Almost every aspect of modern life—ecology and economics, commerce and finance, politics and government, science and education—faces tectonic, disruptive, and destabilizing change (Brown, 2011; Kelly, 2005; Toffler & Toffler, 2006). Leaders across domains express a common refrain of being in “uncharted waters,” where old models, routines, and assumptions are called into question, with no clear pathways on which to navigate. As a result, there are ­enormous stresses on individuals, institutions, and organizations who are called upon to meet, and effectively adjust to, increasingly discordant, unpredictable and extreme events.

How we make sense of change influences how successful we are in responding to it, and a key purpose of leadership is to facilitate responses to problems positively, ethically, and in a way that strengthens society (Heifetz, 1994). It is our contention that mindfulness training is a powerful and effective means of helping leaders meet the adaptive challenges of the current age.





10.2 Adaptive Leadership


Heifetz distinguishes two classes of challenge that leaders are likely to face: technical problems and adaptive ones (Heifetz, 1994). The distinctions between these two types can help to identify potential tools for facing them.

Technical problems may be complex and difficult but can be addressed with existing ways of perceiving and understanding; they are known problems with known solutions based on past experience. For example, a skilled surgeon understands the process of ­transplanting a kidney and a practiced marksman can reliably strike a target.

Adaptive challenges, on the other hand, differ from technical ones in that both the problem and the solution may not be recognized and understood within current schemas. Adaptive challenges call upon leaders to grow towards more sophisticated ways of seeing and thinking, acting and relating.

Take for example an adaptive challenge of a previous era: cholera outbreaks in 19th-century London were thought to be caused by “miasma in the atmosphere,” according to the received wisdom of the day (Summers, 1989). However, the close observation of Dr John Snow suggested the onset of disease was marked by intestinal disturbances that pointed not to poisoned fog but to a tainted water supply. His observation transformed the understanding of the problem in a way that would eventually lead to a cure and give rise to the adaptive creation of public health services.

In other examples, problems may be well understood but solving them requires a shift in perceiving possibilities and relationships. The leaders of a large desert metropolis, for example, may understand that their city relies on an uncertain water supply. Historically, they are predisposed to building centralized large-scale engineering works to transport water from faraway sources. A significant perceptual shift is needed to recognize the millions of gallons of existing wastewater runoff as a potential resource that can be locally collected through a decentralized community effort and recycled without the expense of moving it across vast distances. This adaptation requires that the leaders learn to relate to the public not just as passive customers but as partners in creating the solution.

Finally, adaptive challenges also arise where both the problem and the solution are not well understood. The current debate on climate change typifies this sort of problem. Partisans fall into conflict over the cause of weather changes and what would constitute an effective response. In both cases, adaptive challenges cannot rely on previous solutions, frameworks, or ways of understanding and relating to make sense of the issues and respond effectively. Leaders must learn and change if they are to engage with and resolve the challenge.

A common mistake leaders make is to misidentify adaptive problems as technical ones, thinking that yesterday’s solutions can apply to today’s novel problem (Kegan & Lahey, 2010). This is because of the innate human tendency to mindlessly and nonconsciously react with rote action patterns and habitual ways of sense-making (Langer, 1989). The mind’s tendency towards automatic actions, while useful in stable circumstances, can become maladaptive when the pattern no longer fits a changing condition. Many of the complex challenges leaders face exceed their ability to perceive, understand, and adapt within their current schemas (Kegan & Lahey, 2010). Leaders are often, to paraphrase the words of developmental psychologist Robert Kegan, “in over their heads” (Kegan, 1998). When leaders apply an old map to a new problem, they find themselves stuck, stressed, and frustrated at their lack of progress.

Adaptive challenges are especially difficult. They call into question existing roles, orders, and hierarchies. As a result, they are often stressful. Stress reactions are instinctive, automatic survival mechanisms that mobilize energy to adapt to a potential threat (­Greenberg et al., 2002). However, if they are poorly managed or unmanaged altogether, leaders can be expected to experience a range of negative affects and cognitive impairments that can leave them disoriented, disconnected, fearful, and frustrated (Boyatzis & McKee, 2005; Goleman, 1996). Yet leaders need to demonstrate that they are calm, in control, and able to inspire, motivate, make wise decisions, and take effective, thoughtful action. In other words, they need to ably manage themselves in the face of their own neurobiology. The failure to effectively self-manage impairs a leader’s health, diminishes his or her performance and potentially damages his or her relationships (Boyatzis & McKee, 2005).

Because adaptive challenges often require complex coordination with others, quality relationships are essential. The growing importance of high-quality interpersonal ­relationships reflects a broad trend in organizations that have shifted from hierarchical command-and-control models to flatter systems in which formal authority is decreased (Pearce & Conger, 2002). In such situations, authority becomes more informal and connective—relying on a leader’s skill to connect with, persuade, and motivate others to act in ways that may be uncomfortable, or to give up limited resources or go against their own short-term interests (Heifetz & Linsky, 2002; Lipman-Blumen, 2000). In order to skillfully navigate these conditions, leadership capacities and skills based in high levels of cognitive and emotional nuance are called for. Adaptive leaders need to cultivate the skills of managing themselves if they are to skillfully work with others to meet the challenge of adaptive problems (Drucker, 2011; Hunter & Scherer, 2009).

To be effective in meeting adaptive challenges, a leader must be able to consciously step out of habitual reactions and engage with a shifting reality in new and more sophisticated ways (Drucker, 2001; Kegan & Lahey, 2010; Wilson, 2004). They must learn to cultivate and transform themselves. This self-development results in enhanced internal capacities, such as deeper intellectual understanding, greater perceptual capacity, and a greater ability to innovate, self-manage, and self-direct (Csikszentimihaly, 1993).

Leaders need new tools to support them as they grapple with increasingly testing realities. We propose that a critical skill for adaptive leaders is the capacity to be mindful—to be present and aware of themselves, others, and the world around them; to recognize in real time their own perceptions (and their potential biases), their emotional reactions, and the actions they need to take to address current realities more effectively (Boyatzis & McKee, 2005; Kabat-Zinn, 1990).

Mindfulness training can provide leaders with practical methods for enhancing attention and awareness. This in turn can significantly enhance their potential for adaptive action and self-management. Mindfulness adds a potent perspective from which to understand human action and, as a set of transformative methodologies, has the capacity to radically—and practically—reshape it.

In this chapter we describe more fully what mindfulness is, explore how it might be ­beneficial to leaders, and examine how a seemingly simple practice can elicit potentially profound results.





10.3 What is Mindfulness?


Mindfulness is a way of attending to yourself, others, and the world around you that allows you to adopt more productive and positive ways of acting and being (Chaskalson, 2011). Mindful attention is rooted in the here and now and is not biased by the preconceptions inherent in everyday preferences (Kabat-Zinn, 1990).

Because attention directly informs subjective experience (James, 1890), cultivated mindful attention has the potential to radically transform how a person relates to their inner and outer worlds. The power of mindfulness arises from systematically developing a person’s attention so that he or she can recognize in the moment how he or she identifies with his or her implicit, habitual, and automated patterns of thinking, feeling, and acting and the results they bring about. By recognizing these patterns, he or she can elect to change course. As a result, mindfulness endows “an adaptability and pliancy of mind with quickness of apt response in changing situations” (Nyanaponika 1965, p. 80). Furthermore, because attention is a necessary constituent in any human activity, mindfulness can be brought to bear in any domain of human life.

Mindfulness, as we use the term, was taught by the Buddha over 2500 years ago as a way of solving the problem of human suffering. That same approach to mindfulness is also practiced today as a specific methodology for transforming the mind in a wide variety of secular contexts, such as medicine (Kabat-Zinn, 1990), clinical psychology (Segal et al., 2002), law (Riskin 2002), the military (Jha et al., 2010), corporations (Chaskalson, 2011), management schools (Hunter & Scherer, 2009), and even professional basketball (Lazenby, 2001). ­Crucially, the capacity for mindfulness can be trained and one highly effective way of doing so is through mindfulness meditation techniques. A growing scientific literature attests to the effectiveness of mindfulness training in areas as diverse as stress and chronic pain management, depression relapse prevention, eating-disorder treatment, recidivism, and substance-abuse relapse prevention (Chiesa & Serretti, 2010). A Google Scholar search on the term “mindfulness” anywhere in the title of a paper, conducted on December 14, 2011, yielded 2480 results. Research thus far has primarily focused on alleviating the pathological. However, there is a growing body of evidence demonstrating the effectiveness of mindfulness in healthy populations, where it has been shown to enhance overall well-being, producing desirable ­outcomes across a range of measures (Brown & Ryan, 2003; Chiesa & Serreti, 2009).





10.4 How Mindfulness can Help Leaders


To date, there is little research evidence around the application of mindfulness to leadership (Bryant & Wildi, 2008). But drawing on what is known of its effectiveness in other fields and for human life in general, we confidently surmise that applying mindfulness in leadership contexts will be considerably beneficial.

Because mindfulness training focuses on how leaders use their attention, it is not just another construct to stand alongside the many other arms of leadership research and practice, but both a perspective and a systematic method that helps leaders better understand and transform their own minds. Such an internal shift changes both how a leader sees the world, how he or she potentially acts, and the results those actions bring about. What marks mindfulness training out from other leadership training interventions is the fact that the shift in attentional capacity can be trained and embedded in the context of everyday action. Furthermore, the effectiveness of such training is borne out by marked biological changes. To draw on just one study, neuroimaging research by Hölzel and colleagues (2011) showed that an 8-week mindfulness training course evinced changes in participants’ brain areas associated with attention, learning and memory processes, emotion regulation, self-referential processing, and perspective-taking.

Our sense of the value of mindfulness builds on Mumford’s (2006) insight that outstanding leadership is rooted in a leader’s ability to construct prescriptive mental models that help people and institutions make sense of and respond to crises. Mindfulness is a tool that makes more evident the way a leader perceives and processes experience to construct models of reality. Mindfulness also makes these models more amenable to conscious transformation. Increased conscious awareness, we assert, is far more likely to produce an accurate read of a changing situation than does the natural tendency to fall back on rote habits of sense-making.

A unique quality of mindfulness practice is that it is a tool rooted in immediate experience. Leadership training has thus far tended to focus on retrospective analyses of past action or on future-oriented creations of visions and goals (Drucker, 2001). Little of leadership development has focused on understanding oneself in the present moment. But it is in the present that all human activity occurs. The here and now is the “live feed” into how a person experiences life. Focusing on the present affords the leader the ability to see what is actually happening beyond his or her own preconceptions; to see when a person’s stated actions and intentions mismatch their actual ones; and to catch a reactive emotion before it does damage to a key relationship.

Mindfulness addresses a set of general interrelated problems that interfere with a ­leader’s capacity to bring about adaptive change: the pervasiveness of mindlessness and automaticity and the instinctual survival reactions that undermine cooperative, rational action and degrade both personal health and group and individual resilience. It can supportively speak to and build upon existing lines of leadership research and development, as well as practical applications.

It may be that successful leaders have always drawn on some quality akin to mindfulness to deal with change, and ideas similar to mindfulness have long been discussed by prominent leadership scholars (Drucker, 2006; Heifetz, 1996). This discussion can be further developed and built upon, and we aim to support these ideas with greater elaboration and empirical evidence.

What follows is a brief general discussion of the basic conditions which give rise to the need for mindfulness, namely mindlessness and the automated, nonconscious nature of human perceiving, thinking, feeling, and acting. Following that is a more in-depth exploration of how mindfulness can help leaders in specific ways, in which we will examine the role mindfulness can play in helping to manage stress and reactive emotions, make better decisions, act in innovative ways, and respond freshly to situations beyond the limits of their habituated actions. In other words, how to become a more adaptive leader. Finally, because mindfulness is a practice, it is important to understand the mechanisms of how mindfulness is thought to work.





10.5 The first Problem: Mindlessness, Automaticity, and the Human Condition


Mindfulness is a general tool than can animate a broad range of specific situations. Before we can closely explore how mindfulness can help leaders, it is important to understand the general human condition that mindfulness addresses. This is a necessary and important step because in understanding the broader problem, the variety of specific instances will make greater sense.

A great deal of leadership research and training tacitly carries the assumption that leaders are knowingly conscious, clearly perceiving, and rationally acting (Kegan, 1994). Within this framework, emphasis is placed on goal-setting, skill-learning, and continuous achievement, based on the implicit assumption that the leader’s perspective is the right one (Heifetz & Laurie, 2001). However, a growing body of psychological research shows that conscious action is far more limited than has been previously assumed. In fact, it appears to be the case that the vast preponderance of human actions—at least 90% by some measures—including thinking, feeling, judging, and acting, are driven by nonconscious automated processes (Wilson, 2004). Automaticity recalls philosopher Alfred North Whitehead’s statement that “Civilization advances by extending the number of important operations which we can perform without thinking about them” (Whitehead, 1911). The process of automation has a neural basis and is associated with the activity of the basal ganglia, which helps to transform repeated conscious actions into habitual patterns (Yin & Knowlton, 2006). Given this, automaticity can be seen as an effective adaptive quality because by automating processes, limited cognitive resources are freed up to attend to more important tasks.

However, there is a problem.

Automated patterns operate mechanically and rigidly. This is true for both persons and organizations (Drucker, 1999; Langer, 1989; Weick et al., 1999). Once triggered, automated patterns play out the same way each time. Automaticity works well in times of stability, because the underlying learned programs do not require frequent updates and so there is a productive match between them and the environment. However, in times of great change, what worked before may no longer fit the new circumstances. For example, a strategy for successfully bringing a product to market may work in one era, but fail miserably in another, as demonstrated by the fall of General Motors (GM). The company’s postwar success lulled it into ignoring smaller, higher-quality, fuel-efficient foreign competitors, believing its approach to car-making was superior. For decades, GM saw a slowly eroding market share. When it finally made some adaptive efforts to innovate it was already too late, and the firm eventually collapsed (Taylor, 2011). Automatic processes are easier to set in place than they are to dislodge. In the case of GM, adaptation only happened when the accumulated negative results of the pattern were so obviously disastrous that circumstances forced a fundamental rethink of operations.

As well as automating behavioral routines to conserve limited resources, mindlessness produces fixed categories of understanding (Langer, 1989) that limit how a person, or an organization, perceives the world. This in turn limits how they can respond or interact. Fixed schemas become the unseen fundamental assumptions about how the world is, resulting in a diminished perception of possibilities and rigid responses. The leader who categorizes a certain department in his or her organization as unmotivated and disaffected, for example, may create self-fulfilling prophecies by the way he or she behaves towards it and have his or her biases reinforced by disallowing any other ­interpretation of its actions. If something is categorized in a certain way—for example, if the poor are seen as uncreditworthy—this affects what is seen to be possible and what potential responses may be mobilized (Yunus, 2008). Habitual ways of understanding produce habitual reactions. This is problematic in situations where adaptive challenges call upon leaders to go beyond what is already known and understood.

Research in leadership skills tends to emphasize three basic areas: human skills, technical skills, and cognitive skills (Mumford et al., 2000; Northouse, 2009). Comparatively less emphasis is placed on perceptual skills, or the ability to attend to experience without the deadening and distorting influences of mindlessness and nonconscious action (Drucker, 2003).

Lasswell (1948), in his landmark work Power and Personality, asserted that leaders in a democracy must be aware of how nonconscious processes inform and potentially distort their judgments, actions, and well-being. Because democracy relies on rationality to function effectively, he called for processes to help leaders gain insight into themselves, in order that they might act more consciously and rationally. This is the function of mindfulness. Yet human history is littered with examples of “the best and brightest” who, trapped by their own perceptual blinders and biases, led their people down dark and destructive paths. Halberstam (1993) documents how the Harvard-trained leaders who led America into disastrous conflict with Vietnam were unwilling to challenge their own presumptions and worldviews in the face of facts. We assert that leadership research and practice should place more focus on the need to acknowledge the pervasive reality of mindlessness and the importance of taking active measures to counteract it (Drucker, 1999; Heifetz, 1996).

The varieties of mindlessness create obstacles both to perceiving reality clearly and to taking conscious, considered action in the face of changing circumstances. In addition, there is a second type of automatic reaction, related to instinctive survival needs, that further interferes with adaptive action and leadership effectiveness.





10.6 The Second Problem: Mindlessness and the Drive to Survive


One subset of automatic behaviors is especially problematic for situations requiring creative, cooperative, and adaptive responses—the instinctive, unbidden neural coup by ancient survival programs to which the human brain is vulnerable. These processes, which are cued to short-term survival in primitive circumstances, become problematic in the complex social environment of the modern organization. When triggered, these reactions—associated with the activity of the amygdala—incite a cascade of aggressive or escapist survival reactions (Le Doux, 1998). The amygdala, once activated by perceived threat, bypasses higher-order neocortical processes, mobilizing a defensive reaction before rational sense can be made of what a person has experienced. Goleman (1996) coined the term “amygdala hijack” to describe this misplaced fight-or-flight reaction (Goleman, 1996; Sapolsky, 2004). Prolonged stresses may also result in freezing in the face of threat (Levine, 1997). Organizationally, cultures of stress give rise to freezes that manifest as demotivated behavior, akin to learned helplessness, where workers stop making meaningful effort (Bate, 1992; Thompson et al., 1996).

Intense survival reactions privilege patterned stereotyped thinking (Broverman et al., 1974), narrow attention and perspective (Teichner, 1968), undermine the ability to ­sustain attention (Arnsten, 2000) and engage in complex cognitive processes (Arnsten, 1997), privilege self over other, and motivate reactive, antisocial, and potentially destructive emotions (Goleman, 1996). Reactive emotions (such as anger, fear, and rage) are characterized by routine default patterns of action that are narrow in scope, limiting the palette of potential responses. Furthermore, reactive emotions consume large amounts of energy and deplete personal resources, alienate others, and over time rigidify potential responses (Fredrickson, 1998). Because these reactions are fast and nonconscious, they undermine even the most consciously well-intentioned leader.

Unrestrained and unmanaged survival reactions do much to undermine leadership effectiveness (Goleman et al., 2002). A leader’s stress-driven, uncivil reactions undermine team effort and weaken commitment to an organization (Pearson & Porath, 2003). Furthermore, antisocial behavior decreases helpfulness, creativity, and performance of routine tasks (Porath & Erez, 2007). Chronically-stressed workers who are fearful of their jobs and overloaded with additional responsibilities without sufficient social and emotional support are ripe for underperformance, burnout, and even suicide (Hallowell, 2008).





10.7 Mindfulness’ Potential Promise for Leaders


This section explores recent findings on mindfulness and the implications they have for more-effective leadership. We will explore the impact of mindfulness training on ­leadership stress, emotional reactivity, attention and working memory, perception and cognition, empathy, decision-making, and innovation. The final section will then present an ­investigation of the mechanisms of mindfulness and with suggestions for the direction of further research.





10.7.1 Managing the stress of leading


The secular approach to mindfulness training that was pioneered in a clinical setting by Kabat-Zinn (1990) and his colleagues was initially intended to address the issues of stress and chronic pain. Systematic reviews of the empirical evidence (Baer et al., 2003; Chiesa & Serretti, 2010; Grossmann et al., 2004) suggest that it is an effective means of helping to manage the debilitating qualities of excessive stress.

Leaders often enjoy the challenge of their position and find their work stimulating (Lundberg & Frankenhaeuser, 1999), but leadership can also be highly stressful. ­Boyatzis & McKee (2005) describe the condition of “power stress” to which those in leadership positions are particularly susceptible. This is a byproduct of the manifold pressures they experience, the ambiguities of authority and communication that abound in large ­organizations, and the loneliness inherent in leadership positions. Boyatzis & McKee see some degree of power stress as being inevitable in leadership positions, and the key to ­successful leadership, they suggest, is not in avoiding stress so much as in taking steps ­regularly to recover from the effects of it. Mindfulness practice, they say, is a key means by which such recovery can be instituted.

In an interview in the Harvard Business Review, Herbert Benson (Fryer, 2005) draws on Selye’s (1975) distinction between eustress (from the Greek eu, meaning “good”) and distress. Persistent stress that is not resolved through coping or adaptation leads to ­distress, which may give rise to anxiety or depression. But stress can also enhance physical or mental function, for instance through strength training or challenging work. In that case it is eustress.

Stress is the physiological response to any change—good or bad—that alerts the adaptive fight-or-flight response in the brain and body. When this is experienced as eustress, ­Benson asserts, it is accompanied by clear thinking, focus, and creative insight. Distress, on the other hand, refers to the negative stressors that accompany much of a leader’s work. ­Benson reports frequent encounters, at the medical institute that he runs, with executives who worry incessantly about the changing world economy, the impact of uncontrollable events on their markets and sources of finance, the world oil supply, family problems, taxes, traffic jams, hurricanes, child abductions, terrorist attacks, and environmental ­devastation. Most of these are adaptive challenges and, as we have seen, can produce ­distress. For the mindful leader, however, they may equally well be a source of eustress.

The relationship between eustress and distress is illustrated by the Yerkes–Dodson curve (Figure 10.1). First described by the psychologists Robert Yerkes and John Dodson in 1908, this is often taken as a standard description of the relationship between stress and performance. As pressure on any organism or individual increases, so the individual or organism’s “arousal”—their capacity to respond to that pressure—increases. But beyond a certain point, if the pressure continues unabated, arousal (or performance) falls off. In the case of individuals, if this continues for too long, they become stressed and eventually begin to get ill. It is important that organizations and leaders realize that the kinds of chronic stress that often come with leadership positions have been connected to a wide range of diseases and dysfunctions, such as thyroid or endocrine burnout, obesity, diabetes, the inability to experience pleasure from normally pleasurable events, immune-suppression, psoriasis, lupus, fibromyalgia, chronic fatigue, chronic pain, cancer, heart disease, infertility, and irritable bowel syndrome or other digestive disorders (Britton, 2005). Excessive, unmanaged stress can kill. From a leadership perspective, as Boyatzis & McKee (2005) observe, it can also lead to a state of “dissonance.”

Figure 10.1 Yerkes, R.M., and Dodson, J.D. (1908) The relation of strength of stimulus to rapidity of habit-formation. Journal of Comparative Neurology and Psychology, 18, 459–482.



Dissonant leaders, Boyatzis & McKee (2005) suggest, drain the enthusiasm of teams and organizations. They lower morale and make those around them unhappy. The stressors such leaders experience drive them towards attitudes of excessive control, aversion, intolerance, irritability, and fear—qualities that counteract the effectiveness of leading adaptive change. Chronic stress, therefore, is a significant leadership issue. As we will discuss later, mindfulness helps the practitioner consciously shift how and in what way he or she processes experience, including stressful experiences. Therefore, we assert that those who are better able to manage the stressors they experience and are able to recover from these more effectively are less likely to fall into states of dissonance with their people and will therefore make better leaders. For the mindful leader, better equipped to manage his or her own stressors, adaptive challenges may, as Benson suggests (Fryer, 2005), produce not distress but eustress.

A review and meta-analysis of the effects of mindfulness-based stress reduction (MBSR) for stress management in healthy people conducted by Chiesa & Serretti (2009) concluded that MBSR was able to significantly reduce stress in that population. We will see how it might do that when we consider the mechanisms of mindfulness in Section 10.8.





10.7.2 Managing reactive emotions


Leadership is a social enterprise in which relationships are key to getting things done. The quality of the relationships matters—this is even truer when situations are stressful. Because leaders’ emotions are prone to contagion, Sy et al. (2005) undertook a study that examined the effects of leaders’ moods on the moods of individual group members, the affective tones of groups, and three group processes: coordination, effort expenditure, and task strategy. They found that when leaders were in a positive—as compared to a negative—mood, individual group members themselves experienced more positive and less negative mood. In such cases, moreover, the groups had a more positive and a less negative affective tone. They also found that groups with leaders in a positive mood exhibited more coordination and expended less effort than did groups with leaders in a negative mood. It is often the case that considerable energy is directed towards managing a volatile leader’s emotions or contriving ways to avoid their activation, resulting in attention being directed away from other critical tasks.

Given the crucial importance of relationship management to adaptive leadership, and given the impact of the leader’s mood on that relationship, the capacity to skillfully manage one’s own emotions is a vital leadership competency, and mindfulness training can make a significant contribution here. One of the early neuroimaging studies on mindfulness, conducted by Creswell and colleagues (2007), demonstrated that study participants higher in trait mindfulness displayed greater prefrontal cortical activation and reduced amygdala activation when exposed to difficult emotion. The same inverse correlation between the prefrontal cortex and amygdala activation was not found for those low in trait mindfulness. Furthermore, using labeling methods, where participants named the difficult emotions they were experiencing, high-mindfulness participants better decreased the level of negative affect they experienced relative to those low in mindfulness. Their training in mindfulness helped them to better manage negative affect.

Jha et al. (2010) suggest that there is ample evidence that mindfulness training’s ­beneficial effects on affective experience are also commensurate with the amount of time spent engaging in formal mindfulness training exercises (there is therefore a dose-response, which suggests a causal relationship) and that the training is associated with higher levels of positive affect and well-being and lower levels of negative affect and rumination, as well as with decreased emotional reactivity. These findings, they say, are consistent with the decreases in neural activity elicited by affective distractors within the amygdala and other brain regions involved in emotional processing that follow from mindfulness training. Such results converge on the view that mindfulness training may improve affective ­experience via improved regulatory control over affective mental content.

All of these studies suggest that mindfulness training has the potential to help leaders better self-regulate in the face of stressors.





10.7.3 Attention and working memory


The Jha et al. (2010) paper emerged from their work with a cohort of US Marines who were undergoing stress inoculation training prior to combat deployment. They wanted to discover the impact of 8 weeks of mindfulness training under such high-stress conditions, with a particular focus on the mindfulness-trained cohort’s experience of emotion regulation and cognitive control. Cognitive control, as they see it, refers to the family of ­attention-related regulatory processes needed to ensure that information processing is in accord with long- and short-term goals, and effective cognitive control, we suggest, is a crucial skill for adaptive leadership.

They found that the Marines’ working-memory capacity was boosted by 8 weeks of mindfulness training and that this had beneficial effects on their capacity for emotion regulation and on their level of cognitive control. As a result, Jha et al. suggest that mindfulness training may have the capacity to protect against the kinds of functional impairment that are often associated with high-stress contexts.

Further evidence for the beneficial impact of mindfulness training on attention comes from the work of Lazar and colleagues (2005), who used magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) to assess cortical thickness in 20 participants with extensive mindfulness-­meditation experience. They found that brain regions associated with attention, interoception, and sensory processing were thicker in meditation participants than in matched controls.





10.7.4 Perceiving reality beyond one’s blinders


The way we make sense of the world depends on the data we draw upon. If the data are not accurate or relevant then the meanings we make will not fit the actual needs of a situation, resulting in missteps, failure, and loss. A study conducted by Herndon (2008) suggested that mindfulness-trained subjects may come to draw upon more objective data sources and thus make more consistently accurate inferences about the world around them. Herndon uses a distinction elucidated by Lewicki (2005) between “external” and “internal” encoders. The encoding referred to here is the way in which we make sense of the world based on available data; external encoders pay attention to facts in the environment, whereas internal encoders use rigid models based sometimes on their own past experience, sometimes on information that might bear no relation to experience whatsoever. Lewicki suggested that internal encoders tend more readily to sustain cognitive mismatches in the face of conflicting data because their data source tends to be self-referential and closed rather than objective and open. For example, in the case of internal encoders, the view that “people with dark eyes (A) are arrogant (B)” may generate experience that is functionally equivalent to encountering real instances of this relation between A and B. Though no objective evidence supports this particular A–B relation, the schema assuming it can grow in strength over time and become a habitual way of sense-making. External encoders, by contrast, tend to be more careful in deriving meaning from data in the environment. They require a greater amount of confirming data from the world around them before instantiating a schema. Herndon’s (2008) study showed a positive correlation between mindfulness and the tendency towards external encoding. In other words, people who are more mindful tend to read the environment more accurately and are less subject to the potential distortion of internal biases.

What is crucially important for adaptive leaders in this context is the fact that mindfulness can be trained. By undertaking a course in mindfulness training, Herndon’s study implies, leaders may become better able to make accurate assessments of the environment in which they are operating and less prone to misleading, subjective, perceptual blinders.

This view is supported by neuroscience data. An fMRI study conducted by Farb and colleagues (2007) noted that with just 8 weeks of MBSR training, individuals were more readily able to switch their focus of attention from the default network, involved in “narrative focus” activities—such as planning, daydreaming, and ruminating—to modes of direct “experiential focus” somatosensory awareness, involving the activation of the insula and the anterior cingulate cortex. In other words, the mediators were more readily able to experience information coming into their senses in real time. What’s more, compared to the control group, those who practiced mindfulness—regularly noticing the difference between narrative and direct-experience modes of processing—showed a stronger differentiation between the two neural paths. They knew which path they were on at any point in time, and could switch between them more easily. Subjects with no experience of mindfulness practice, on the other hand, were more likely to automatically adopt a narrative mode of processing.

On this basis, it seems, all other things being equal, that one might reasonably expect leaders trained in mindfulness to exhibit lower levels of automaticity, higher levels of situational awareness, and consequently higher levels of objectivity than those who are not so trained.





10.7.5 Cultivating empathy


Besides drawing attention to mindfulness training’s ability to help leaders develop greater situational awareness in the moment through an enhanced capacity to attend to what is present, Farb and colleagues’ (2007) study pointed to another important potential outcome of mindfulness training in the context of leadership development: increased empathy. They showed that mindfulness-trained subjects had higher levels of insula activation after just 8 weeks of training. That insula activation is central to our sense of human connectedness, helping to mediate empathy in a visceral way (Singer, 2004). Mindfulness training allows participants more readily to know that they’re thinking when they’re thinking, to know what they’re feeling when they’re feeling it, and to be aware of what they are sensing at the time they’re sensing it. It enhances their capacity for situational awareness in the moment and it builds their capacity for empathy.

Because leadership is a social activity, the quality of the relationship between the leader and especially his/her proximate followers is important, as it helps him or her to understand others’ points of view, build an effective team, and rally a group to work collectively (Hogan & Hogan, 2002). A small but growing body of research offers evidence that mindfulness improves the quality of interpersonal relationships. Though focused primarily on romantic relationships, Carson and colleagues (2004) found that mindfulness training improved both partners’ well-being and their ability to effectively cope with their own and each other’s daily stresses. Another study exploring mindfulness and relationships found that higher levels of mindfulness were associated with greater relationship satisfaction. Additionally, mindfulness was related to reduced negative emotions and increased positive assessments of one’s partner after discussing a relationship conflict. People with higher levels of mindfulness experienced less anxiety and anger-hostility, and this produced more positive outcomes when facing conflict. The authors suggest that mindfulness plays an inoculating role in reducing basic levels of distress and that this allows a more positive and productive engagement with one’s partner (Barnes et al., 2007).

Although the studies referred to here come from the field of romantic relationships, there is no de facto reason to imagine that their findings will not translate into the relations between leaders and their teams. In particular, the relationship found by Barnes and colleagues (2007) showing lower levels anxiety and anger-hostility in mindfulness-trained subjects at times of conflict must imply the strong possibility of significant benefits from mindfulness training when it comes to leader–follower relations.





10.7.6 Making better decisions


Meditation training also appears to impact directly on one’s quality of decision-making. Kirk and colleagues (2011) conducted an fMRI study to see whether experienced meditators are better equipped to regulate emotional processes compared with controls during economic decision-making in the ultimatum game.

In the classic example of the ultimatum game, a “proposer” offers to split a sum of money with a “responder” in a two-person exchange. If the responder rejects the offer, both players get nothing. The rational choice, therefore, would be for responders to accept all non-zero offers. Players, however, are generally not so magnanimous and responders typically reject offers in which the proposer’s share exceeds 80% of the total. They would prefer to get nothing than to accept an inferior share of the winnings (Bolton & Zwick, 1995; Guth et al., 1982). Kirk and colleagues’ (2011) study showed that meditators accepted the “unfair” offers on more than half of the trials, whereas the controls only accepted “unfair” offers on one-quarter of the trials. By applying fMRI, they showed that meditators activate a different network of brain areas to controls, enabling them to uncouple their negative emotional reactions from their behavior. This highlights the possibility that training in mindfulness meditation may impact important domains of human decision-making.

As we have seen, Jha et al. (2010) reported that US Marines who undertook 8 weeks of mindfulness training showed a consequential enhancement to their working-memory capacity. Cokely & Kelley (2009) draw attention to the relationship between higher ­working-memory capacity and superior decision-making under risk. Where there is greater working-memory capacity, their study suggests, so there is superior decision-making.

In an article published in Joint Force Quarterly, Stanley & Jha (2009) suggest that ­maintaining or enhancing warriors’ baseline levels of working-memory capacity through mindfulness training will have cascading beneficial effects for effective decision-making, complex problem-solving, and emotion-regulation processes, all of which are heavily taxed over the cycle of their deployment in conflict situations and are crucial to the effectiveness of their mission.

All of this suggests that leaders who are called upon to make rational decisions under pressure would benefit significantly from mindfulness training.





10.7.7 Innovative action


Finally, although we are not aware of any studies yet carried out that show a direct correlation between mindfulness training and creativity, the work of Friedman & Forster (2001) suggests that such a correlation is highly likely. Before we discuss the study on creativity they undertook, we need briefly to outline one carried out by Davidson et al. (2003). They carried out a study with volunteers at a biotech company to investigate the effects of mindfulness training on prefrontal activation. They measured brain electrical activity in the left and right prefrontal cortex (LPFC and RPFC) before, immediately after, and at 4-month follow-up after an 8-week training program in mindfulness meditation. Twenty-five subjects were tested in the meditation group, and a waitlist control group was tested at the same points in time as the meditators. At the end of the 8-week period, subjects in both groups were vaccinated with influenza vaccine to assess their immune response.

Davidson (1998) has drawn attention to the relationship between RPFC activation and diminished immune response. The 2003 study showed significant increases in LPFC activation in the meditators compared with the nonmeditators. It also found significant increases in antibody titers to the influenza vaccine among subjects in the meditation group compared with those in the waitlist control group. The magnitude of increase in left-sided activation predicted the magnitude of antibody titer rise to the vaccine. These results persisted at 4-month follow-up.

What is significant here is the changes evidenced in the mindfulness-trained subjects’ ratios of LPFC and RPFC activation. Gray (1970, 1994) distinguished two important behavior-modification systems. These he called the behavior inhibition system (BIS), which is an “avoidant” mode of mind, indicating the presence of fear, disgust, anxiety, aversion, and so on; and the behavior activation system (BAS), which is an “approach” system, indicating the presence of emotions such as enthusiasm, pride, interest, and curiosity. As Davidson (1998) has shown, these two systems correlate to the asymmetric activation of the prefrontal cortex. LPFC activation corresponds to BAS or “approach” modes of mind, and RPFC activation corresponds to BIS or “avoidance” modes of mind.

Returning now to the work of Friedman & Forster (2001), they set two groups of college students the task of helping a mouse find its way out of a maze drawn on paper. There was one slight difference in the pictures the groups received. The “approach” version of the picture showed a piece of cheese lying outside the maze in front of a mouse hole. The “avoidance” version was identical except that there was no cheese and instead an owl hovered over the maze—ready to swoop and catch the mouse at any moment.

The maze takes about 2 minutes to complete and all the students who took part solved it in about that time, irrespective of the picture they were working on. But the difference in the after-effects of working on the puzzle was striking. When the participants took a test of creativity soon afterwards, those who had helped the mouse avoid the owl came out with scores 50% lower than those who had helped the mouse find the cheese.

The enhanced capacity for “approach” modes of mind following a course of mindfulness training, as evidenced by Davidson & Kabat-Zinn (2003) and also by Barnhofer and colleagues (2007), suggests that leaders who train in mindfulness are likely to experience an increased capacity for creativity and innovation.

Our final section will explore the underlying mechanisms that describe how mindfulness functions. Because mindfulness is a practice, we believe it is important to explain how to implement it.





10.8 Understanding the Practice and Mechanisms of Mindfulness


10.8.1 Mindfulness, attention, and cognitive control


Mindfulness is a quality of attention. Attention plays a central role in mediating the ­relationship between a person’s inner and outer worlds. Attention is the medium that binds a person to his or her environment and is a primary determinant of experience (James, 1890). Attention also plays a central role in a person’s relationship to him or ­herself. James (1890) argued that the ability to control attention was “the very root of judgment, character and will” and was the sine qua non of self-mastery. Highly-focused attention is the central characteristic of optimal performance or flow experience (Csikszentmihalyi, 1990), while scattered attention, as characterized by multitasking, is related to more error-prone and slower performance (Rubinstein et al., 2001). Attention plays a central, if not primary, role in nearly every aspect of human endeavor, especially interpersonal relationships (Hugenberg & Bodenhausen, 2004). As we have previously discussed, mindfulness training is a highly effective means of developing the capacity to pay attention (Jha et al., 2007) and people who are trained in mindfulness are better able to exercise crucial attentional elements—cognitive control and emotion regulation—in high-stress conditions (Jha et al., 2010).





10.8.2 Mindfulness training methods


The methods of training employed on mindfulness training courses generally emerge from the Buddhist tradition, but in its secular—often clinical—form, mindfulness training is most commonly encountered in the contexts of the MBSR program developed by Kabat-Zinn and colleagues at the University of Massachusetts Medical Center (Kabat-Zinn, 1990) and the mindfulness-based cognitive therapy (MBCT) program that emerged from it (Segal et al., 2002). Both of these approaches center around an 8-week-long group-based training course. Participants typically spend 2–3 hours per week in taught group sessions and are required to perform around 45 minutes per day of home practice for each day that the course runs. Briefer interventions have also been developed for use in organizations (Klatt et al., 2009), and variants on the course have been developed to address a wide range of other conditions (Chiesa & Serretti, 2010). Meta-analyses of the data on such programs generally find them to be effective (Baer, 2003; Chiesa & Serretti, 2010; Grossmann et al., 2004).

Typically, participants will learn several structured meditation practices. They might learn to sit in meditation for between 20 and 40 minutes at a time, depending on the course structure, allowing their minds to rest with one or another focus of attention, which may be suggested by their instructor—their breath, their body sensations, sounds, and so on. Most of these meditation sessions will be conducted while sitting—usually in chairs—though depending on circumstances, some might be conducted lying down. Participants also learn to be mindful while moving, by practicing yoga or by way of a walking meditation. They might learn brief, highly “portable” 1- or 3-minute meditations that they can apply as needed in their working day, and they will learn “informal” mindfulness practices as well—mindful eating, for example, or driving, or showering. They will be invited to become more aware of their unfolding experience from moment to moment.

There is no space here to more fully describe the rich protocols of a mindfulness training course. Chaskalson (2011) describes one that has been designed for the workplace, as does Klatt (2009). There has as yet, to our knowledge, been no research conducted on any program that aims specifically to develop leadership competencies using mindfulness training, although both authors of this chapter, separately in the USA and in the UK, offer forms of mindfulness training to leaders in organizations and in business schools. The forms we employ in such contexts bear a close relationship to the methods used in MBSR and MBCT, and it may be useful here to consider some of the mechanisms for change which underlie this approach.





10.8.3 The mechanisms of mindfulness


How does mindfulness help to incite adaptive challenges? Teasdale & Chaskalson (2011) suggest that there are three principle mechanisms by which mindfulness training has its effects. Participants in mindfulness training discover three principle strategies that help them to deal more creatively and less automatically with their thoughts, feelings, and sensations. Fundamentally, they learn to shift and undermine the internal conditions that support difficult states of mind by learning to effect changes in what their mind is processing, in how their mind is processing it, and in the view they take of what is being processed. As a result, gradual practice develops skill in bringing a greater level of conscious awareness to routinized and mindless patterns. This is the heart of adaptation.

As a way of anchoring this discussion in a concrete example, imagine the case of a leader whose team has recently merged with one from another division. Used to working with people who are open and enthusiastic about their work, this leader now finds herself having to deal with a group who are reluctant and evasive—and highly skilled at using the nuances of UK employment law to their own advantage, irrespective of the impact on their new team. The team has to produce its results for an annual review by the board in a few days’ time but, given the lack of cooperation from their new colleagues, it seems highly unlikely that they will meet this target. The leader calls some of the new team members together and tries to communicate her concerns, but she meets patent, and passive, resistance. At home that ­evening, she finds herself upset and irritable, dwelling constantly on thoughts about the new team members and their impact on the future of her career, and how they have changed the atmosphere in her old team. She just can’t get them off her mind.

Participants in mindfulness-based programs often report a reduction in distress following such events. They may describe that as a result of practicing mindfulness, such a meeting, which previously might have left them mindlessly ruminating on and off for several hours, now leads to much shorter disturbance and that it becomes easier to move on and to take a more constructive approach to whatever comes next (Allen et al., 2009).





10.8.4 Changes to what the mind is processing


The first and simplest strategy a student of mindfulness learns for altering the internal conditions that sustain difficult states of mind is to change the content of what the mind is processing (Teasdale & Chaskalson, 2011). One can do this by redirecting attention away from ­emotionally-charged ruminations to aspects of experience that are less likely to support the ­arising and continuation of patterns that maintain the difficulty. So, in the case of the meeting referred to in the previous subsection, the team leader who has been trained in mindfulness skills might intentionally shift attention away from her thoughts of frustration and worry, and refocus and sustain her attention on the bodily sensations of her breath moving in and out. The relatively neutral content of the breath provides less “fuel” for maintaining a problematic internal state such as the continual rehashing of emotion-laden thoughts related to the meeting. Her mind begins to calm and she becomes better able to consider different possibilities for action.





10.8.5 Changes to how the mind processes


Whereas the first strategy changes what is processed, the second approach would be to leave the ‘input’ to the mind the same, but to change how the material is processed (Teasdale & Chaskalson, 2011). For our executive, this might mean attending with interest and curiosity to the unpleasant feelings created by the difficult meeting. Rather than be at war with the feelings, our executive relates to them differently. The difficult emotions become objects of experience rather than a source of over-whelm. In this shift, she finds greater space to see the situation from a new point of view.

This brings us back to the study conducted by Davidson et al. (2003), who found that 8 weeks of mindfulness training brought about a significant increase in the activation of ­participants’ LPFC. This, it is plausible to suggest, will have been accompanied by a significant shift in their capacity to maintain “approach” modes of mind in the face of difficulty, which corresponds to Teasdale & Chaskalson’s (2011) second strategy. As we have shown, the capacity to regulate emotional responses has very considerable leadership advantages. And as we will show next, there is a potentially significant correlation between approach modes of mind and creativity—which also has significant implications for leadership effectiveness.





10.8.6 Changes to the view taken of what the mind is processing


The third strategy that Teasdale & Chaskalson (2011) suggest is to change the view one has of the material being processed. With the difficult meeting, this might involve a change from the perception, “This new team is really frustrating,” to the perception, “I’m experiencing unpleasant thoughts, feelings, and sensations right now.” By doing so, the leader recategorizes her experience from a statement about her perceived view of the team’s characteristics to a statement about her immediate and impermanent internal state. In Langer’s view, the recategorization of phenomena results in new possibilities. By developing a mindful perspective on them, leaders who are trained in mindfulness learn to see their thoughts just as thoughts, rather than as a reflection of reality or truth. This leads to reduced reactivity and lower levels of suffering and distress (Baer, 2003; Teasdale, 1999). It also increases psychological flexibility—the ability to keep on with mental and physical behaviors that support what you want in your life and to avoid those behaviors that don’t (Hayes, 2004). By not reactively fixating on the team, our leader creates the possibility for herself of acting differently and more positively, which increases the chances of a positive outcome.

The benefits to leaders from taking a mindful perspective on thoughts are considerable. Segal and colleagues (2002) suggest that mindfulness training has the capacity to bring about a state of “metacognitive awareness,” in which, rather than simply being one’s ­emotions—identifying personally with negative thoughts and feelings—one may learn to relate to negative experiences as mental events in a wider context or field of awareness. Leaders who do so are thereby freed, at least to some extent, from the distorted reality their emotion-laden thoughts can create, which may considerably enhance their leadership effectiveness.

Metacognitive awareness can increase freedom and lead to a sense of having a choice in all aspects of one’s life. Take the case, reported by Kabat-Zinn (1990), of Peter, who ­attended an MBSR course because he had had a heart attack and wanted to prevent himself from having another one. Peter came to a dramatic realization one night as he found himself, at 10 pm, standing in his driveway washing his car under floodlights. He suddenly saw that he didn’t need to be doing that. He had spent the day, as he usually did, determinedly trying to fit in all that he thought he needed to do. It struck him, in that moment, that he’d been unable to question the truth of his conviction that everything had to get done today. He was completely caught up in believing it and so, inevitably, he acted from it. Washing the car was on his to-do list. If something was on the list, it had to get done. That attitude, Peter saw in a flash, was what led to his anxious sense of being constantly driven, his perpetual tension, and his unconsciously anxious approach to life. That small, simple assumption gave rise to a set of attitudes and behaviors that threatened his heart and his health. As a result of his mindfulness training, Peter became more aware of his mental patterns. He saw that the thought, “I’ve got to wash the car next, it’s on my list,” was just a thought. He didn’t have to follow it. He could choose whether to continue or whether to stop and relax a bit before going to bed. He decided to call it quits.

Notice here the tiny assumption at the heart of Peter’s driven and anxious approach to life: “If something is on the to-do list, it has to be done.” It is precisely this kind of nonconscious implicit assumption that distinguishes adaptive leaders from others. Adaptive leaders will more readily spot such assumptions and mobilize action to correct them. ­Returning to an earlier example, a more adaptive leadership at GM would have spotted much sooner the fallacious assumption that the route to continued success was through selling large, fuel-inefficient motor cars and have taken action to shift the company’s priorities.

Rooted in the present and making meaning from external, objective data, adaptive leaders are more able to see their thoughts and assumptions as just thoughts and assumptions; more able to question them and to discard ineffectual thoughts (“If it’s on my to-do list it must be done at all costs,” “The kinds of car we’ve sold well in the past will be the kinds of car that we’ll sell well in the future”). They are better able to adapt to the realities in which they find themselves.

Participants on a mindfulness course learn metacognitive skills indirectly but very effectively (Teasdale et al., 2002). As we have seen, they may be instructed to meditate on their breath—simply allowing their attention to settle on the sensations of breathing. At some point during this meditation, the instructor might suggest that when their minds wander the participants should note where it goes and then gently and kindly bring their attentions back to their breaths. At another point, he or she might add, “And if your mind wanders off a hundred times, just bring it back a hundred times…” The mind wanders, you notice where it went, and you bring it back. It wanders, you notice where it went, and you bring it back. Over and over. In this way, participants learn four key metacognitive skills:

(1) The skill of seeing that their mind is not where they want it to be—“I want to sit in this meditation, following my breath, but I keep thinking about what’s next on my to-do list.”

(2) The skill of detaching their mind from where they don’t want it to be—“Actually, I don’t need to be thinking about my to-do list right now: I can choose …”

(3) The skill of placing their mind where they want it to be—“I’ll just come back to the breath …”

(4) The skill of keeping their mind where they want it to be—“I’ll just follow my breath for a few minutes, undistractedly.”



By repeatedly practicing these four skills, participants become more adept at them. This starts to have benefits outside of the meditation context: “I don’t need to be thinking about which holiday to book when I get home—I need to give all of my attention to the team member who has come to see me.”

As Baer (2003) and Jha et al. (2010) have noted, the tendency of the mind to wander and the instruction to return it to the breath calls on course participants to increase the level of their cognitive-control processes. They must also employ emotion-regulation processes in order to step away from the sense of frustration at failing to concentrate. Such enhanced attentional flexibility, we suggest, will have considerable pay-offs in terms of increased effectiveness.

But more than that, humans are meaning-making animals and are constantly creating and re-creating narratives to fit the limited facts of experience. Those meanings and ­conclusions that are too-quickly arrived at can fail to fit the facts:

John was on his way to school.

He was worried about the math lesson.

He was not sure he could control the class today.

It wasn’t part of a janitor’s duty

(Segal et al., 2002, p. 244).

The above scenario leads the mind’s eye through a certain construction of reality from one line to the next. Automatic, nonconscious processes rapidly make meaning out of limited sensory input. It is further elaborated by combining it with content from one’s past ­experience and is constantly updated as new data become available, creating an ever-changing running commentary on the events that take place within awareness. Sometimes this ­process fails. When leaders fail in this way, given their position in relation to others, the problems that follow can proliferate. Praise from a subordinate, for example, can be read as “He appreciates me” or “He’s sucking up to me,” and the reaction that follows will differ accordingly. As we have seen, Herndon (2008) found that subjects low in mindfulness tended to cling to their internal narrative of events as a source of meaning-making, leading to greater perceptual errors, while those who were higher in mindfulness paid closer attention to the facts that presented themselves and had fewer perceptual failures. Even an identical event is liable to different interpretations:

A manager and one of her staff are discussing certain options:

“Would you prefer to attend the conference or stay and catch up your backlog?” the manager asks.

“I don’t mind”, her subordinate replies.

When the manager recounts this conversation to her own line manager she remembers the event as: “I asked him whether he’d like to go to the conference or not and he said he didn’t care.” Her subordinate, by contrast, recalls it as: “She asked me whether I’d like to go to the conference or to stay and catch up and I said I didn’t mind which—I just wanted to do whatever she thought would be most useful.” The distinction between actual events and the interpretation of events is not always obvious (Chaskalson, 2011, p.95).





10.8.7 Findings on the overall benefits of mindfulness training


Chiesa et al. (2011) conducted a systematic review of the neuropsychological findings of mindfulness meditation, to assess its impact on overall cognitive ability. They discovered that different results emerge over time across training. The early phases of mindfulness training, which are more concerned with the development of focused attention, are associated with significant improvements in selective and executive attention, whereas the later phases, which are characterized by an open monitoring of internal and external stimuli, are mainly associated with improved unfocused sustained-attention abilities. In addition, they found that mindfulness training could enhance working-memory capacity and certain executive functions. Noting the various limitations of the studies they investigated, they called for further high-quality studies of more-standardized mindfulness-meditation programs.





10.8.8 Directions for future research


The role of mindfulness and its positive potential for enabling effective leaders is ripe with possibilities for further research. The studies cited here only point to a wealth of future opportunities. Mindfulness provides a practical methodology for developing skills that are essential to effective adaptation in changing environments. Considering that mindfulness has been effectively used in a number of professional settings, the domain of leadership would benefit from systematic investigation. We assert that there is significant value in determining the effect upon leaders of the attentional skills, levels of empathy and emotional intelligence, nonreactivity, creativity, innovation, and overall well-being resulting from undertaking such training. Having said that, we should also say that mindfulness alone is not a panacea. Awareness by itself does not always translate into effective action, but having awareness increases the possibility of effective action occurring.

Finally, it would be valuable to explore the extent to which questionnaires that examine currently-accepted leadership constructs overlap (or not) with questionnaires that seek to assay levels of mindfulness. Venkatasubramanian & Dorjee (2011) have made a start in this area by investigating links between dimensions of authentic leadership, as measured by the Authentic Leadership Questionnaire (ALQ) (Walumbwa et al., 2007), and the axioms of mindfulness assessed by the Five-facet Mindfulness Questionnaire (Baer et al., 2006). They also draw attention to a variety of neurocognitive measures that might test the predictions that emerge from these links. The correlation of measures from leadership studies with those from mindfulness studies, taken along with biological measures to test the ­resulting predictions, may begin to yield significant evidence of the benefit or otherwise of leaders being trained in mindfulness skills.





10.9 Conclusion


How to lead people to effectively adapt in the face of great change? How to stop the habitual tendency of falling back on old routines in the face of unprecedented crises? How do leaders manage themselves and the stressors inherent in the tasks they face and the challenges of their responsibilities? Leaders need new tools to do their jobs more effectively. We propose that mindfulness offers a powerful methodology for enhancing the well-being and the efficacy of leaders as they face stressful and challenging conditions. A steadily growing body of research has demonstrated that mindfulness evinces changes in the brain that help people to become more present, less emotionally reactive, and more deliberate and purposeful in their thoughts and actions. By learning to step out of the innate human tendency to run on automatic pilot, leaders can deliberately create new options for action that can lead us through turbulent times.





References


Allen, M., Bromley, A., Kuyken, W., & Sonnenberg, S.J. (2009). Participants’ experience of ­mindfulness-based cognitive therapy: it changed me in just about every way possible. Behavioural and Cognitive Psychotherapy, 37, 413–430.

Arnsten, A.F. (1997). Catecholamine regulation of the prefrontal cortex. Journal of Psychopharmacology, 11, 151–162.

Arnsten, A.F. (2000). Through the looking glass: differential noradrenergic modulation of prefrontal cortical function. Neural Plasticity, 7, 133–146.

Baer, R., Smith, G.T., Hopkins, J., Krietemeyer, J., & Toney, L. (2006). Using self-report assessment methods to explore facets of mindfulness. Assessment, 13(1), 27–45.

Barnes, S., Brown, K.W., Krusemark, E., Campbell, W.K., & Rogge, R.D. (2007). The role of mindfulness in romantic relationship satisfaction and responses to relationship stress. Journal of Marital and Family Therapy, 33(4), 482–500.

Barnhofer, T., Duggan, D., Crane C., Hepburn, S., Fennell, M.J., & Williams, J.M. (2007). Effects of meditation on frontal alpha-asymmetry in previously suicidal individuals. Neuroreport, 18(7), 709–712.

Bate, P. (1992). The impact of organizational culture on approaches to organizational problem-solving. In G. Salaman. Human Resource Strategies. London: Sage.

Bolton, G.E. & Zwick, R. (1995). Anonymity versus punishment in ultimatum bargaining. Games and Economic Behavior, 10, 95–121.

Boyatzis, R. & McKee, A. (2005). Resonant Leadership. Boston: Harvard Business School Press.

Britton, W.B. (2005). The physiology of stress and depression and reversal by meditative techniques. Integrating Mindfulness-based Interventions into Medicine, Health Care, and Society. 4th Annual Conference for Clinicians, Researchers and Educators. Worcester, MA, April 1–4. (3-hour DVD available).

Broverman, D.M., Klaiber, E.L., & Vogal, W. (1974). Short-term versus long-term effects of adrenal hormones on behaviors. Psychological Bulletin, 81, 672–694.

Brown, K.W. & Ryan, R.M. (2003). The benefits of being present: mindfulness and its role in psychological well-being. Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, 84, 822–848.

Brown, L.R. (2011). World on the Edge: How to Prevent Environmental and Economic Collapse. New York: W.W. Norton & Co.

Bryant, B. & Wildi, J. (2008). “Mindfulness” in IMD Perspectives for Managers, 162. Lausanne, Switzerland.

Cacioppo, J.T., et al. (1993). Emotional Contagion: Studies in Emotion and Social Interaction. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.

Chambers, R., et al. (2009). Mindful emotion regulation: an integrative review. Clinical Psychology Review, 29, 560–572.

Chaskalson, M. (2011). The Mindful Workplace: Developing Resilient Individuals and Resonant Organisations with MBSR. Chichester, UK: Wiley-Blackwell.

Carson, J.W., Carson, K.M., Gil, K.M., & Baucom, D.H. (2004). Mindfulness-based relationship enhancement. Behavior Therapy, 35(3), 471–494.

Chiesa, A. & Serretti, A. (2009). Mindfulness-based stress reduction for stress management in healthy people: a review and meta-analysis. The Journal of Alternative and Complementary Medicine, 15(5), 593–600.

Chiesa, A. & Serretti, A. (2010). A systematic review of neurobiological and clinical features of mindfulness meditations. Psychological Medicine, 40, 1239–1252.

Chiesa, A., Calati, R., & Serretti, A. (2011). Does mindfulness training improve cognitive abilities? A systematic review of neuropsychological findings. Clinical Psychology Review, 31(3), 449–464.

Cokely, E.T. & Kelley, C.M. (2009). Cognitive abilities and superior decision making under risk: a protocol analysis and process model evaluation. Judgment and Decision Making, 4(1), 20–33.

Csikszentmihalyi, M. (1993). The Evolving Self: A Psychology for the Third Millennium. New York: Harper.

Davidson, R.J. (1998). Affective style and affective disorders: perspectives from affective neuroscience. Cognition and Emotion, 12(3), 307–330.

Davidson, R.J., Kabat-Zinn, J., Schumacher, J., et al. (2003). Alterations in brain and immune function produced by mindfulness meditation. Psychosomatic Medicine, 65, 564–570.

Drucker, P.F. (1993). Post-capitalist Society. New York: HarperBusiness.

Drucker, P.F. (1999). Management Challenges for the 21st Century. Oxford: Butterworth-Heinemann.

Drucker, P.F. (2003). The New Realities. Oxford: Butterworth-Heinemann.

Edersheim, E. & Drucker, P.F. (2007). The Definitive Drucker. New York: McGraw-Hill Professional.

Ekman, P. (2003). Emotions Revealed: Recognizing Faces and Feelings to Improve Communication and Emotional Life. New York: Henry Holt.

Ekman, P., editor. (2008). Emotional Awareness: A Conversation between the Dalai Lama and Paul Ekman. New York: Times Books.

Farb, N.A., Segal, Z.V., Mayberg, H., Bean, J., McKeon, D., Fatima, Z., & Anderson, A.K. (2007). Attending to the present: mindfulness meditation reveals distinct neural modes of self-reference. SCAN, 2, 313–322.

Fleishman, E.A., Mumford, M.D., Zaccaro, S.J., Levin, K.Y., Korotkin, A.L., & Hein, M.B. (1991). Taxonomic efforts in the description of leader behavior: a synthesis and functional interpretation. Leadership Quarterly, 2, 245–287.

Fredrickson, B. (1998). What good are positive emotions? Review of General Psychology, 2(3), 300–319.

Fredrickson, B. (2001). The role of positive emotions in positive psychology: the broaden-and-build-theory of positive emotions. American Psychologist, 56(3), 218–226.

Fredrickson, B. & Losada, M. (2005). Positive affect and the complex dynamics of human flourishing. American Psychologist, 60(7), 678–686.

Friedman, R.S. & Forster, J. (2001). The effects of promotion and prevention cues on creativity. Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, 81(6), 1001–1013.

Fryer, B. (2005). Are you working too hard? A conversation with Herbert Benson. Accessed 03/02/11. http://hbr.org/2005/11/are-you-working-too-hard/ar/1.

Getzels, J.W. & Csikszentmihalyi, M. (1975). From problem solving to problem finding. In I. Taylor & J. Getzels, editors. Perspectives in Creativity. Chicago: Aldine Press.

Goleman, D. (1996). Emotional Intelligence: Why It Can Matter More Than IQ. London: Bloomsbury.

Goleman, D., Boyatzis, R., & McKee, A. (2002). Primal Leadership: Learning to Lead with Emotional Intelligence. Boston: Harvard Business School Press.

Gray, J.A. (1970). The psychophysiological basis of introversion-extraversion. Behavioral Research Therapy, 8, 249–266.

Gray, J.A. (1994). Three fundamental emotion systems. In P. Ekman & R.J. Davidson, editors. The nature of Emotion: Fundamental questions. Oxford: Oxford University Press. pp. 243–247.

Grossman, P., Niemann, L., Schmidt, S., Walach, H. (2004). Mindfulness-based stress reduction and health benefits: a meta-analysis. Journal of Psychosomatic Research, 57, 35–43.

Guth, W., Schmittenberger, R., & Schwarze, B. (1982). An experimental analysis of ultimatum bargaining. Journal of Economic Behavior and Organisation, 3, 376.

Hayes, S. (2004). Acceptance and commitment therapy and the new behaviour therapies: mindfulness, acceptance and relationship. In S.C. Hayes, V.M. Follette, & M.M. Linehan, editors. Mindfulness and Acceptance: Expanding the Cognitive-behavioral Tradition. New York: Guilford Press. pp. 1–29.

Hallowell, E.M. (2008). Overloaded circuits: why smart people underperform. Harvard Business Review. Last accessed 09/20/11. http://www.avelution.com/Overloaded%20Circuits%20-%20Why%20Smart%20People%20Underperform,%20HBR%202005.pdf.

Heifetz, R.A. (1996). Leadership without Easy Answers. Boston: Harvard University Press.

Heifetz, R.A. & Laurie, D.L. (2001). The work of leadership. Harvard Business Review, January–February, 1997.

Heifetz, R.A. & Linsky, M. (2002). Leadership on the Line: Staying Alive through the Dangers of Leading. Boston: Harvard Business School Press.

Herndon, F. (2008). Testing mindfulness with perceptual and cognitive factors: external vs. internal encoding, and the cognitive failures questionnaire. Personality and Individual Differences, 44, 32–41.

Hölzel, B.K., Carmody, J., Vangel, M., Congleton, C., Yerramsetti, S.M., Gard, T., & Lazar, S.W. (2011). Mindfulness practice leads to increases in regional brain gray matter density. Psychiatry Research: Neuroimaging, 191, 36–42.

Hugenberg, K. & Bodenhausen, G.V. (2004). Ambiguity in social categorization: the role of prejudice and facial affect in racial categorization. Psychological Science, 15, 342–345.

Hunter, J. & McCormick, D.W. (2008). Mindfulness in the workplace: an exploratory study. In S.E. Newell, facilitator. Weickian Ideas. Symposium conducted at the annual meeting of the Academy of Management, Anaheim, CA.

Hunter, J. (2009). The Drucker Difference: What the World’s Greatest Management Thinker Means to Today’s Business Leaders. McGraw-Hill Professional.

James, W. (1890). The Principles of Psychology. Dover Publications. Republished in a new edition 1957.

Jha, A.P. (2002). Tracking the time-course of attentional involvement in spatial working memory: an event-related potential investigation. Cognitive Brain Research, 15, 61–69.

Jha, A.P., Krompinger, J., & Baime, M.J. (2007). Mindfulness training modifies subsystems of attention. Cognitive, Affective & Behavioral Neuroscience, 7(2), 109–119.

Jha, A.P., Stanley, E.A., et al. (2010). Examining the protective effects of mindfulness training on working memory capacity and affective experience. Emotion, 10(1), 54–64.

Kabat-Zinn, J. (1990). Full Catastrophe Living: Using the Wisdom of Your Body and Mind to Face Stress, Pain and Illness. New York: Delta.

Kegan, R. (1994). In Over Our Heads: The Mental Demands of Modern Life. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.

Kegan, R. & Lahey, L. (2010). Immunity to Change: How to Overcome It and Unlock the Potential in Yourself and Your Organization. Cambridge, MA: Harvard Business Press.

Kelly, E. (2005). Powerful Times: Rising to the Challenge of Our Uncertain World. New Jersey: Pearson-Prentice Hall.

Kirk, U., Downar, J., & Montague, P.R. (2011). Interoception drives increased rational decision-making in meditators playing the ultimatum game. Frontiers in Neuroscience, 5(49), 1–11.

Klatt M.D., Buckworth, J., & Malarkey, W.B. (2009). Effects of low-dose mindfulness-based stress reduction (MBSR-ld) on working adults. Health Education and Behavior, 36, 601–614.

Langer, E.J. (1989). Mindfulness. Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley/Addison-Wesley Longman.

Lasswell, R. (1948). Power and Personality. New Brunswick: Transaction Publishers.

Lazar, S.W., Kerr, C.E., Wasserman, R.H., Gray, J.R., Greve, D.N., Treadway, M.T., et al. (2005). Meditation experience is associated with increased cortical thickness. Neuroreport, 6(17), 1893–1897.

Lazenby, R. (2001). Mindgames: Phil Jackson’s Long Strange Journey. McGraw-Hill.

Le Doux, J.E. (1996). The Emotional Brain: The Mysterious Underpinnings of Emotional Life. New York: Simon & Schuster.

Levine, P.A. (1997). Waking the Tiger: Healing Trauma—The Innate Capacity to Transform Overwhelming Experience. Berkeley, CA: North Atlantic Books.

Lewicki, P. (2005). Internal and external encoding style and social motivation. In J.P. Forgas, K.D. Williams, & S.M. Laham, editors. Social Motivation: Conscious and Unconscious Processes (Sydney Symposium of Social Psychology). Cambridge, MA: Cambridge University Press.

Lipman-Blumen, J. (2000). Connective Leadership: Managing in a Changing World. Oxford: Oxford University Press.

Lundberg, U. & Frankenhaeuser, M. (1999). Stress and workload of men and women in high-ranking positions. Journal of Occupational Health Psychology, 4(2), 142–151.

Mumford, M.D. (2006). Pathways to Outstanding Leadership: A Comparative Analysis of Charismatic, Ideological and Pragmatic Leaders. Mahwah, NJ: Earlbaum and Associates.

Mumford, M.D. & Connelly, M.S. (1991). Leaders as creators: leader performance and problem solving in ill-defined domains. Leadership Quarterly, 2, 289–315.

Mumford, M.D., Xaccaro, S.J., Harding, F.D., Jacobs, T.O., & Fleishman, E.A. (2000). Leadership skills for a changing world: solving complex social problems. Leadership Quarterly, 11, 11–35.

Northouse, P.G. (2009). Leadership: Theory and Practice. Los Angeles, CA: Sage.

Nyanaponika. (1965). The Heart of Buddhist Meditation: Satipatthana—A Handbook of Mental Training. New York: Weiser Press.

Pearce, C. & Conger, J. (2002). Shared Leadership: Reframing the Hows and Whys of Leadership. Los Angeles, CA: Sage.

Pearson, C. & Porath, C. (2009). The High Cost of Bad Behavior: How Incivility is Damaging Your Business and What to Do About It. New York: Portolio Hardcover.

Porath, C.L. & Erez, A. (2007). Does Rudeness Matter? The Effects of Rude Behavior on Task Performance and Helpfulness. Academy of Management Journal, 50, 1181–1197.

Riskin, L. (2002). The contemplative lawyer on the potential contributions of mindfulness meditation to law students, lawyers, and their clients. Harvard Negotiations Law Review, 7, 1–66.

Rubinstein, J.S., Meyer, D.M. & Evans, J.S. (2001). Executive control of cognitive processes in task switching. Journal of Experimental Psychology: Human Perception and Performance, 27, 763–797.

Sapolsky, R.M. (2004). Why Zebras Don’t Get Ulcers, 3rd Edition. Saint Martin’s Press.

Schwartz, J. & Begley, S. (2003). The Mind and the Brain: Neuroplasticity and the Power of Mental Force. New York: Harper.

Segal, Z.V., Williams, J.M.G., & Teasdale, J.D., (2002). Mindfulness-based Cognitive Therapy for Depression: A New Approach to Preventing Relapse. New York: The Guilford Press.

Selye, H. (1975). Confusion and controversy in the stress field. Journal of Human Stress, 1, 37–44.

Singer, T., et al. (2004). Empathy for pain involves the affective but not sensory components of pain. Science, 303, 1157.

Smith, A. (1859). The Theory of Moral Sentiments. Grin Verlag.

Stanley, E.A. & Jha, A.P. (2009). Mind fitness: improving operational effectiveness and building warrior resilience. Joint Force Quarterly, 55.

Summers, J. (1989). Soho: A History of London’s Most Colourful Neighborhood. London: Bloomsbury.

Sun Tzu. (1988). The Art of War. Translated with introduction and notes by Thomas Cleary. Boston: Shambhala Publications.

Sy, T., Coté S., & Saavedra, R. (2005). The contagious leader: impact of the leader’s mood on the mood of group members, group affective tone, and group processes. Journal of Applied Psychology, 90(2), 295–305.

Taylor, A. (2011). Sixty to Zero: An Inside Look at the Collapse of General Motors—And the Detroit Auto Industry. New Haven, CT: Yale University Press.

Teasdale, J.D. (1999). Metacognition, mindfulness and the modification of mood disorders. Clinical Psychology and Psychotherapy, 6, 146–155.

Teasdale, J.D., Moore, R.G., Hayhurst, H., Pope, M., Williams, S., & Segal, Z.V. (2002). Metacognitive awareness and prevention of relapse in depression: empirical evidence. Journal of Consulting and Clinical Psychology, 70(2), 275–287.

Teasdale, J.D. & Chaskalson, M. (2011). How does mindfulness transform suffering? II: the transformation of dukkha. Contemporary Buddhism, 12(1), 103–124.

Teichner, W.H. (1968). Interaction of behavioral and physiological stress reactions. Psychological Review, 75, 271–291.

Thompson, N., Stradling, S., Murphy, M., & O’Neill, P. (1996). Stress and organizational culture. British Journal of Social Work, 26, 647–665.

Toffler, A. & Toffler, E. (2006). Revolutionary Wealth: How It Will Be Created and How It Will Change our Lives. New York: Crown Business.

Venkatasubramanian, S. & Dorjee, D., (2011). Mindfulness and Authentic Leadership: A Theoretical Model Based on Underlying Neuro-cognitive Mechanisms. Poster presentation at Mindfulness Now: Building on the Last Decade. Conference. Centre for Mindfulness Research and Practice, Bangor University, UK.

Walumbwa, F.O., Avolio, B.J., Gardner, W.L., Wernsing, T.S., & Peterson, S.J. (2007). Authentic leadership: development and validation of a theory-based measure. Journal of Management, 34(1), 89–126.

Weick, K.E., Sutcliffe, K.M., & Obstfeld, D. (1999). Organizing for high reliability: processes of collective mindfulness. Research in Organizational Behavior, 21, 23–81.

Wetzel, C.M., et al. (2006). The effects of stress on surgical performance. The American Journal of Surgery, 191, 5–10.

Whitehead, A.N. (1911). Introduction to Mathematics. Oxford: Oxford University Press.

Wilson, T. (2004). Strangers to Ourselves: Discovering the Adaptive Unconscious. Cambridge: Belknap Press.

Yerkes, R.M. & Dodson, J.D. (1908). The relation of strength of stimulus to rapidity of habit-­formation. Journal of Comparative Neurology and Psychology, 18, 459–482.

Yin, H.H. & Knowlton, B.J. (2006). The role of the basal ganglia in habit formation. Nature Reviews Neuroscience, 7, 464–476.

Yunus, M. (2008). Creating a World without Poverty: Social Business and the Future of Capitalism. New York: PublicAffairs.





11


The Future of Leadership


David V. Day and John Antonakis





11.1 Introduction


The good news with regard to this (or any) chapter on the future of leadership is that there is one. There was a time when researchers called for a moratorium on new leadership theory and research (e.g. Miner, 1975), citing the uncertain future of the field. Then for a time there was a popular academic perspective that leadership did not really matter when it came to shaping organizational outcomes (Meindl & Ehrlich, 1987; Meindl et al., 1985; Pfeffer, 1977). That perspective was laid to rest by “realists” in the field (Day & Antonakis, 2012a) by means of empirical reinterpretation of the results used to support it (Lieberson & O’Connor, 1972; Salancik & Pfeffer, 1977). Specifically, Day & Lord (1988) showed that when proper methodological concerns were addressed (e.g. controlling for industry- and company-size effects; incorporating appropriate time lags), the impact of top-level leadership was considerable—explaining as much as 45% of the variance in measures of organizational performance. Despite some recent pessimistic sentiments about the “curiously unformed” state of leadership research and theory (Hackman & Wageman, 2007), others have argued that the field has continued to evolve and is potentially on the threshold of some significant breakthroughs (Day & Antonakis, 2012a).

Leadership scholars have been reenergized by new directions in the field, and research efforts have revitalized areas previously abandoned for their apparent lack of consistency in findings (e.g. leadership trait theory). Our accumulated knowledge now allows us to explain the nature of leadership, including its biological bases and other antecedents and its consequences, with some degree of confidence. There are other comprehensive sources that review the extensive theoretical and empirical foundation of leadership (Bass, 2008; Day & Antonakis, 2012b), so that will not be the focus of the present chapter. Instead, we will take a future-oriented perspective in identifying particular areas within the leadership field that we believe offer promising perspectives on the future of leadership.

Nonetheless, it is worthwhile as background to first provide an overview of how we have seen the leadership field change over the past decade or so. This short chronicle will set the stage for a keener understanding of where the future contributions are likely to emerge. Overall, across nine major schools of leadership, researchers have seen a resurgence in interest in one area, a high level of activity in at least four others, inactivity in three, and modest activity in one, which we think holds strong promise for the future (Gardner et al., 2010). In Section 11.2, we will provide brief overviews of these nine schools and their respective levels of research activity (see Figure 11.1).

Figure 11.1 A Brief History of Leadership Research and a Look to the Future. From Day and Antonakis (2012a). Day, D. V., & Antonakis, J. (2012a). Leadership: Past, present, and future. In D. V. Day &J. Antonakis (Eds.), The nature of leadership (2nd ed., pp. 3-25). Los Angeles, CA: Sage.





11.2 Major Schools of Leadership


The trait school of leadership—also referred to as the “great man” (sic) approach—was the earliest to form, at around the turn of the 20th century. The school reached a zenith of activity around the beginning of the 1960s, falling off as a result of the rise of behaviorism, among other things (see Day & Zaccaro, 2007, for a more complete review of the history of leadership trait theory). But it came back with a vengeance in the 1990s and remains highly active today. One reason for this was the introduction of an organizing framework for personality (i.e. the five-factor model), and the other was the development, acceptance, and use of meta-analytic techniques to summarize research findings across studies in a quantitative manner. As will be discussed later, meta-analyses and other methodological and analytical advances have revolutionized many scientific disciplines, including leadership (Day, 2012a).

The behavioral school of leadership is probably exemplified by the Ohio State studies. This school has been generally inactive since the 1980–1990s (and its theories have been somewhat integrated in other approaches), although there have been relatively recent attempts to revive the so-called “forgotten theories” of consideration and initiating structure (Judge et al., 2004).

Contingency theories of leadership, such as those developed and tested by Fred Fiedler and colleagues, were a follow-up to behavioral theories in attempting to improve prediction by incorporating situational moderators. Unfortunately, these approaches tended to collapse under the weight of their own theory in terms of trying to consider all the various forms of situational contingency in their analyses. It is estimated that only about 1% of the articles published in The Leadership Quarterly in the last decade focused on contingency theories (Gardner et al., 2010). But a related class of approaches—grouped under the contextual-approach label—are an emerging area of interest and are very active in terms of recent research and theory. The contextual approach relies on the basic philosophy that a better understanding of leadership processes requires a better understanding of the contextual factors in which leadership is embedded. These contextual factors include hierarchical level, national culture, organizational characteristics, and issues related to race and gender (i.e. diversity). The latter will be discussed as an emerging pathway in Section 11.3.4.

Relational approaches to leadership are probably exemplified by leader–member exchange (LMX) theory. They focus on the quality of the relationship that develops between a leader and a so-called follower (i.e. associate or dyad member) and examine leadership as an inherently relational construct. Relational approaches also include studies of followership and the contributions followers make to effective leadership processes. Approximately 40 articles, or 6% of the total, published in 2000–2009 in The Leadership Quarterly, can be classified as relational, making it a generally very active area of study (Gardner et al., 2010).

The skeptics-of-leadership school has not fared well. It reached its heyday of influence on the field in the 1980s with the romance-of-leadership work of James Meindl and colleagues. Although there has been some attempt to repackage this approach around followers and followership, for the most part the activity level in the area has waned, and it is now considered to be generally inactive. Most contemporary researchers believe that leadership has very real effects in both the short and the long term, even though the process itself can seem ephemeral.

The information-processing school of leadership was based primarily on the work of Robert Lord, especially in terms of its attempts to understand how perceptual processes shape who is seen as a leader. Examples of this work, which integrated leadership perceptions with follower outcomes, have focused on the role of individual identity as something that shapes the kinds of leadership process that emerge (Lord & Brown, 2004; Lord & Hall, 2005). The leader-identity space is one that is attracting a good deal of attention, and the general approach can thus be considered to be very active.

The new-leadership school, which includes neocharismatic, transformational, and visionary leadership—and is spearheaded by exemplary leadership scholars such as Bernard Bass and Robert House—has been credited with reviving scholarly interest in leadership in the 1980s. Although Gardner et al. (2010) have noted a considerable drop in interest as gauged by the proportion of publications in The Leadership Quarterly on relevant topics (from about 34% in the 1990s to 13% in the 2000s), it is still considered to be a very active area of leadership research. Some of the recent approaches have used multilevel modeling techniques to examine the dual-level (individual and team) effects of transformational and charismatic leadership. In addition, the introduction of authentic leadership into the literature has been considered by some to be an extension of the transformational-leadership construct (Day, 2012a).

Finally, biological and evolutionary perspectives on leadership have been gaining attention. Although research on these topics is at best modest (or moderate) and there is no real history of interest prior to 2000, this nascent school offers a potentially unique set of frames through which to study leadership processes and effects. As such, we discuss it as a separate, promising area in Section 11.3.3.

As this brief review suggests, interest in leadership from an academic or scholarly perspective has waxed and waned across the years and across particular schools or topics. Nonetheless, we think that the leadership field is generally quite healthy at present, with a rosy outlook for the future. For one thing, the nature of leadership as a construct continues to evolve, much to the ire of some. For good or bad, there is unlikely ever to be a universally-endorsed operational definition of leadership. Although an accepted construct definition could be considered a hallmark of sound science, it is an unreasonable expectation given that leadership is dynamic, interpersonal, multifunctional, and multilevel in nature (Day, 2012a). Another contributing factor to the evolving nature of leadership is that advances in conceptual frameworks and analytical tools have contributed to changes in the ways in which we think about and study leadership.

In addition, challenges requiring leadership have become increasingly complex. Complex challenges are unlikely to be addressed successfully by any one leader; thus, leadership will likely require a more inclusive orientation (Hollander, 2009). Instead of conceptualizing and studying leaders and followers as distinct entities, better understanding of the dynamic flows in leadership processes underscores the need for a broadened perspective on the role of a leader. Leadership is a dynamic process—not a person or a position—in that someone who is leading at one point in time by influencing others may take on a follower role almost immediately by being influenced by someone else. As noted elsewhere (e.g. Day, 2012b; Day et al., 2009), this is not a new perspective, but one that has been widely overlooked in the ­leadership literature. Everyone can be prepared (i.e. developed) to more fully and effectively participate in leadership processes when needed. If nothing else, this change in perspective from seeing leadership as a relatively exclusive process that is suited for only a special few to seeing it as more inclusive, with everyone holding some responsibility for effective outcomes, has changed the nature of leadership and will shape its future in many important ways.

In Section 11.3 we will address four areas that we believe will be especially influential in shaping the future of leadership over the coming ten years or so. We will conclude in Section 11.4 with some observations regarding other possible factors to watch as the future of leadership emerges.





11.3 Emerging Pathways For Leadership Theory and Research


In forecasting the future of leadership, we have identified four emerging pathways for leadership theory and research in the coming years. Specifically, we address issues of leadership theory itself, measurement and methodological issues regarding leadership research, and the topic areas of sociobiological perspectives on leadership (broadly defined to also include evolutionary perspectives) and the influences of gender and other forms of diversity on leadership processes. Each of these is discussed in this section in turn.





11.3.1 The future of leadership theory


11.3.1.1 Construct definitions


The origins of all good research, including leadership research, start with strong theory. There has been certainly no shortage of theory in the leadership discipline, but it is debatable how much of the research base is truly theoretically grounded. Researchers in the field seem more preoccupied with measures that can be used quickly and easily than with rigorously testing theory. One can only wonder how popular transformational leadership theory (Bass & Riggio, 2006) would have become without the concomitant publication of the Multifactor Leadership Questionnaire (MLQ) (Bass & Avolio, 2000). There have been similar developments as researcher have raced to stake their respective claims on measures of authentic leadership (Walumba et al., 2008), servant leadership (Liden et al., 2008), and similar other “adjective” leadership models.

Despite this apparent measurement imperative in leadership research, the foundation of theory is constructs, not measures (Bacharach, 1989), and clear and accurate terms are the bedrock of strong constructs (Suddaby, 2010). Although constructs are not the same thing as theory, they are necessary but insufficient conditions for a theory to take reasonable form and have merit (Sutton & Staw, 1995). Without getting into what it takes to develop clear theory (which is beyond the scope of this chapter), one particular area that does cry out for some attention is the role of construct definitions.

Besides clearly defining the underlying construct—something that has plagued the general leadership field for ages (Locke, 2003)—and being able to capture the essence of a construct clearly and coherently, a good definition also avoids tautology or circularity (Suddaby, 2010). Tautology occurs when elements of the term being defined are included in the definition of the construct or when it incorporates hypothesized antecedents and outcomes.

For example, Antonakis et al. (2011) found that most definitions of charisma included its antecedents or outcomes, or used exemplars, leading to tautologies that ignored the underlying theme—the unifying theoretical denominator—of the phenomenon. Instead, those authors defined charisma as “symbolic leader influence rooted in emotional and ideological foundations” (p. 376). Granted, it is a very difficult exercise to propose concise definitions because the other risk is to define something so narrowly that it compromises its generalizability and relevance (Suddaby, 2010). But if the leadership field is to continue to evolve then how carefully we define our theoretical constructs is something that must be given much closer attention.





11.3.1.2 Process models


As the leadership field matures theoretically and empirically, there is increasing interest in establishing mediators and moderators of leadership effects within multilevel frameworks (e.g. Chen et al., 2007). This is no doubt at least partly attributable to advances in multilevel modeling techniques (Raudenbush & Bryk, 2002) and other mixed-effects programs that can accurately estimate and partition within- and between-levels effects even in complex cases of involving multilevel mediation (Preacher et al., 2010). There have also been significant advances in our understanding and estimation of moderated-mediation and mediated-moderation models (Edwards & Lambert, 2007; Preacher et al., 2007).

Much as published measures can attract researchers’ attention to a particular leadership approach, when these kinds of sophisticated modeling procedures become more widely available and accepted they attract researchers to use them in testing complex models using “start-of-the-science” analytic techniques. But ultimately, it is the quality of the underlying model and the associated data that matters the most in terms of making a contribution to the leadership literature and enhancing our understanding of leadership processes.

Something that tends to get lost among the fancy analytics is that leadership is a ­process—not a person or a position—and we should be proposing and testing the most appropriate and insightful process models of leadership possible. By “most appropriate and insightful,” we mean including underlying causes that drive other variables in the model. Failing to include these runs the risk of introducing endogeneity (i.e. a predictor correlates with the model’s error term), undermining any possible causal inferences that might be drawn (Antonakis et al., 2010, 2012). This is a particular risk when estimating and testing non-experimental models, which is typically the case in leadership research. The problems with endogeneity are discussed in more detail in Section 11.3.2.

In sum, process theories are those that propose deep determinants and leader traits cause observable behaviors that shape emergence and effectiveness outcomes, which can also include moderation in the form of something such as context. Proposing and testing these kinds of process models is the future of leadership, because they allow researchers to identify causal effects associated with leader traits, given that they are exogenous so long as they have strong heritability influences (also see Lim & Ployhart, 2004; Zaccaro et al., 2004).





11.3.1.3 Development


Leadership research has a century or more of history of theory, which continues to evolve (Day, 2012a). What has been given comparatively less attention is a theoretical perspective on how leaders and leadership develop. A distinction has been drawn between leader development based on the acquisition of individual knowledge, skills, and other characteristics required for the effectiveness of leadership roles and processes and leadership development that focuses on the networked interrelationships among a broader collective (Day, 2000). Nonetheless, what has generally been missing in the literature is any attempt to develop a theoretical foundation regarding how individual leaders, or more-collective leadership processes, develop over time.

This has been a critical omission in that most organizations care relatively little about which particular leadership theory has the most support but do care a great deal—as ­indicated by the billions of dollars invested each year—about how best to develop leadership. There seems to be an implicit belief on the part of researchers that finding the “right” leadership theory will lead inevitably to better leaders through training and developmental workshops on the tenets and principles of the approach (e.g. Dvir et al., 2002). What this belief fails to recognize is that leadership training is a short-term proposition designed to impart proven solutions to known problems, whereas leader development is something that unfolds over a much longer timer period and is part and parcel of ongoing adult development. In other words, development is more about enhancing the potential or capacity of an individual to be effective in situations in which there is no agreed-upon solution and the challenge itself may be completely novel. There is no proven solution because there is no history of experience with the particular challenge (Day, 2012b).

This “development imperative” has opened the door to the introduction of an integrative theory of leader development that incorporates aspects of expertise and expert performance at the most observable level, and of self-regulation and identity at the meso level, all of which are supported by adult-development processes (Day et al., 2009). The focus of this approach is eclectic, with no vested interested in any particular leadership theory. Instead, it emphasizes various developmental processes which ultimately result in developing an expert leader. The process of taking on a leader identity is posed as pivotal in providing the motivation to undertake efforts over a long period of time in order to develop one’s leadership skills and capabilities. Initial support for this and other hypotheses stemming from the theorizing of Day et al. (2009) has been reported with a sample of emerging student leaders engaged in community-service action-learning projects (Day & Sin, 2011).

There have been other theoretical frameworks of leadership development presented in the literature (e.g. Day & Harrison, 2007; Gardner et al., 2005; Lord & Hall, 2005); however, few have been tested empirically. For this reason, it is encouraging to see a recent special issue devoted to reporting on longitudinal studies of leader development (Riggio & Mumford, 2011). Although most of the featured studies in this special issue were not theoretically grounded (with the exception of Day & Sin, 2011), it is a start in terms of building an empirical database of how and why leaders develop over time.

Looking ahead, we believe that leader and leadership development represents a very promising emerging pathway for the future of the field. Organizations are keen to develop leaders and to do so efficiently and effectively. Adopting more theoretically-based approaches to testing how this occurs can only help to build a better science and practice of leader development, which will also enhance the broader leadership discipline.





11.3.2 The future of methods


Integral to better theorizing about leadership is better model-testing. Definitions and strong theory must be followed by robust measurement and testing. This is an area where leadership research has not yet fully risen to the occasion. Nonetheless, the future of leadership needs to be focused on stronger testing if it is to continue to advance as a discipline. The biggest methodological challenges facing leadership research are how to deal with endogeneity and how to correctly estimate multilevel models. These two problems are related (as explained in this subsection) and are poised to become very salient issues in leadership research in the coming years. For example, a review of 110 randomly sampled papers published in top-level journals indicates that researchers fail to address up to 90% of design and estimation conditions, making for confounded interpretations (see Antonakis et al., 2010).





11.3.2.1 The problem of endogeneity


So that policies and practices are correctly informed by leadership research, and that monies are efficiently invested in research activities and practical interventions, it is important to isolate and identify variables that form part of a theory and to know how these variables are causally related. Policy and practice have to turn to research to know whether “x causes y,” and the implications of knowing this are critical in terms of making sound investments in selection, training, and organizational design.

The failsafe way of knowing whether systems of variables are causally related is to manipulate the independent variable(s) concerned, as is done in an experiment; however, much of what we study in social sciences and leadership is difficult to manipulate (Antonakis et al., 2010, 2012). Thus, researchers have to rely on observational methods in order to better understand causal relationships in leadership.

A challenge of using observational methods is that observing a correlation between x and y does not mean much because of the potential problem of endogeneity. x might indeed cause y, but because of endogeneity, y might instead cause x, or x and y might share a common cause and only be related because they co-vary as a function of that cause. Once the effect of the common cause is removed it is possible that there is no relationship between x and y. Thus, it is not clear what the nature of the relationship between two variables is when one observes a correlation in a model that does not have exogenous sources of variance with which to identify the true causal effects. That is, if x is endogenous, correlating it with anything will yield specious estimates that cannot help science or practice advance.

To better understand the problem of endogeneity, imagine the following scenario, ­originally discussed in more detail in Antonakis et al. (2012):

A philosopher is sent out in a field to observe a naturally occurring phenomenon and is required to piece together a theoretical account of what she saw. She observes 50 trials of the phenomenon, which consists of a disk streaking across the sky that almost always shatters soon after a loud “crack” is heard; the disk never shatters when the crack is not heard. She carefully gathers the data, including number of trials, whether the crack was present or not (and how loud it was in decibels), and whether the disc disintegrated or not.

She concludes that it is the sound that shatters the disk and goes on to make several military-related policies (e.g. building jammers/buffers against the noise so as to protect the city walls, changing the building materials of structures that might be disintegrated by the noise, etc.). The problem with the philosopher’s theory is that the causal model is incorrect: the sound (x) does not cause the disk to shatter (y); both are caused by a gunman whom the philosopher did not observe. Thus, x is said to be endogenous because it correlates with omitted causes of y. When modeling the true structure—that is, predicting y and x by whether the gunman shot or not—shows that the residual correlation between y and x is zero. Thus, observing a correlation in the presence of endogeneity is not helpful.

How many constructs are plagued by the problem of endogeneity? The answer appears to be many (Antonakis, 2012; Antonakis et al., 2010). As an example, consider the simple case of LMX theory. The quality of LMX is like the “crack” above: it depends on the leader and the followers doing certain “things” (House & Aditya, 1997). If these “things” are not modeled correctly, we may observe LMX correlating with apparent outcomes (e.g. worker absenteeism); however, these correlations confound the effect of other omitted variables (the “things”). Thus, using LMX as an independent variable in a regression or structural-equation model is like correlating the “noise” with an outcome. It makes for estimates that are not consistent (i.e. consistent estimates converge to the true value as the sample sizes increases). In advancing future leadership theory and research, more work needs to be done to incorporate quasi-experimental approaches that can be used to identify causal effects in naturalistic settings.

There are different forms of endogeneity that can plague estimates in non-experimental studies. Experimental studies are not shielded completely from problems of endogeneity, such as when the effect of endogenous mediators is tested on other endogenous variables. In general, endogeneity can be caused by: (1) omitted variables; (2) simultaneity (or reverse causality); (3) common-method variance; (4) omitted selection (i.e. comparing entities in different groups where membership to a group has not been randomly assigned); and (5) omitted fixed effects (in multilevel models, as explained in Section 11.3.2.2).

There are many ways to deal with endogeneity and describing them all is beyond the scope of this chapter. Suffice it to say that there are methods available to researchers so that they can have their cake and eat it; this is one future that leadership research cannot miss! There are many ways to exploit exogenous variation in order to identify causal effects in non-experimental ways and hence emulate a “natural experiment” of sorts. These include simultaneous-equation models, regression-discontinuity designs, propensity-score and Heckman-selection models (Heckman, 1979), and difference-in-differences models.





11.3.2.2 Multilevel effects and omitted fixed effects


These concern levels-of-analysis issues, which are important in theorizing and testing (Yammarino et al., 2005). Given the current popularity of hierarchical linear models (HLMs) (Raudenbush & Bryk, 2002), we will focus briefly on testing such models, which can be either hierarchical (followers nested under leaders) or longitudinal (leaders repeatedly measured over time). In either case, “leaders” are modeled at level 2 (the higher-order entities under which level-1 observations are nested), and it is important to include the level-2 constant (i.e. fixed) effects in a model so as to avoid omitted-variable bias.

The only sure way to capture these constant effects is to measure all level-2 variables that predict y, which may correlate with the model covariates. Of course, measuring everything that matters is in practice very difficult to do. Thus, the safe-bet estimator is to model the fixed effects explicitly. This can be accomplished very simply by using dummy variables to identify the effects of the level-2 entities. These dummy variables will capture all differences in the dependent variable that are due to level-2 membership by explicitly modeling the differences in level-2 entities as intercepts. Whether or not we know what causes these differences is not of issue because the dummy variables will catch them all. If the level-2 fixed effects correlate with level-1 variables (which is why level-1 variables may be endogenous), the estimates will be adjusted accordingly.

Researchers who wish to understand how variation in level-2 variables affects level-1 outcomes will not be able to answer such questions with a fixed-effects estimator. Instead, they will have to estimate a random-effects model (i.e. HLM) by measuring variables at level 2 instead of modeling fixed effects. But doing so comes with a risk if important level-2 variables are omitted. To ensure that there is no endogeneity in the random-effects estimator, the researcher will have to compare the fixed effects to the random-effects estimates. If they are not significantly different from each other, as determined by a Hausman (1978) test, only then can the random-effects estimator be retained. Unfortunately, this test is foreign to most of those outside of economics and most of the HLM models that have been published in the leadership literature have reported potentially dubious estimates (Antonakis et al., 2010).

Constant effects come in many guises and can be very useful in removing variance due to contextual effects and thus determining incremental effects of target covariates (Liden & Antonakis, 2009). Doing so can demonstrate unequivocally whether leadership matters beyond the fixed effects of firms, industries, countries, and so forth. Constant effects can be either unobserved—such as the effects of higher-level entities (e.g. the constant effects of firms on leaders and followers or the constant effects of industries on firms)—or observed—such as variation in specific cultural-level factors (Hofstede, 1997; House et al., 2004), legal practices, and so forth. There are many other such effects, including hierarchical leadership levels, environmental risk, and so on. The effect of time can also be modeled, as in longitudinal panel models, where time is either controlled for as a fixed effect (Liden & Antonakis, 2009) or used in the context of latent growth-curve analysis (Duncan et al., 2006).

To conclude this subsection, it is very important to estimate models that deal with endogeneity. Although issues with regard to endogeneity are not given sufficient attention by leadership researchers, we are confident that the future of leadership will involve more robust model-testing that will allow researchers, practitioners, and policy-makers to have greater faith in the veracity of leadership research findings.





11.3.3 The future of leadership from a biological and evolutionary perspective


As mentioned previously, there is increased interest in leadership studies in the biological and evolutionary schools (Antonakis, 2011; Arvey et al., 2012). Important to note is that these approaches are currently in the basic research stage. Emerging discoveries can help science better understand leadership processes given the temporal and situational invariance of biological variables. We think that this is one area of research that will make significant breakthroughs in the coming years.

The biological approach exploits variance in measurable individual differences (e.g. brainwaves, endocrinology, genes) to link it to leadership behaviors, decisions, and social-interaction processes (e.g. Balthazard et al., 2012; Lee et al., 2012; Waldman et al., 2012; Zyphur et al., 2009). Using such variation can be useful in estimating both main effects and process models. Concerning the former, because much of the variation in biological variables is exogenous (random), it can be used to identify causal effects directly on outcomes (e.g. how heritable leadership is; whether testosterone makes leaders more dominant). Apart from the direct effects of these variables on outcomes, biological individual differences can be used to help purge models of endogeneity bias. That is, they are very useful in estimating process models and in identifying the causal effects of potentially endogenous variables on outcomes.

The evolutionary perspective looks at why leadership is necessary and how evolution has selected individuals with certain traits to lead (see Van Vugt, 2010, 2012; Van Vugt & Schaller, 2008; Van Vugt et al., 2008). Such perspectives can explain, for example, why a leader’s appearance is so important to voters (see Antonakis & Dalgas, 2009; Antonakis & Jacquart, 2012). Knowing why some leaders acquite votes based on their looks can help reseachers better explain the leader emergence process and estimate whether and why leadership matters.

As for other examples, we know that estimates of the intelligence of US presidents correlate strongly with ratings of greatness (Simonton, 2002, 2006). That this correlation is observerable suggests that presidents were not selected on intelligence (Antonakis & ­Dalgas, 2009; Antonakis & Jacquart, 2012). Emergence and effectiveness should thus be simultaneously modeled in a process model to better explain leadership in the US presidency (and remove endogeneity bias in the intelligence–greatness equation). Such perspectives can also help explain why there may be a mismatch between factors that lead to emergence and effectiveness (Van Vugt, 2010, 2012).

Evolutionary game theory has also been used to better understand the leadership process (Van Vugt, 2012). Examples including understanding why leadership matters in “public goods” games (i.e. where efficiency and the common good depend on cooperation). For instance, we still do not understand very well why leadership is necessary in coordinating efforts, how it affects role-modeling, and in what way rewarding and punishing matter. These are areas where leadership scholars should use insights from experimental economics and evolutionary psychology to advance leadership research.





11.3.4 The future of leadership and diversity


It has been asserted directly that “Theories of leadership have neglected diversity issues” (Chin, 2010, p. 150). This is an important omission (or some might say exclusion) given that the institutional and societal contexts in which leadership is needed will continue to become increasingly diverse. For this reason, there is a pressing need to more fully incorporate diversity into our understanding of leadership. In doing so, there are two overarching questions to consider: (1) What are the relevant aspects of diversity to consider; and (2) What are some possible ways that diversity will shape our future understanding of leadership?

Two areas in which attention has been paid to diversity concerns in leadership are gender (Carli & Eagly, 2012; Eagly & Carli, 2007) and national culture (Ayman & Korabik, 2010; House et al., 2004). Other diversity concerns receiving comparatively sparse attention include race (Livers & Caver, 2003; Sanchez-Hucles & Davis, 2010), religion, disability, and sexual and gender orientation (Fassinger et al., 2010). In particular, there is tremendous potential to contribute to a better understanding of leadership through the lens of religion; however, virtually no attention has been paid to this important topic in the leadership literature, aside from the rather vapid perspective of spirituality. In arguing for additional research on religion and leadership (which is not the same as religious leadership), it is assumed that there are fundamental differences in the nature of leadership based on a Hindu, Muslim, Christian, Confucian, or other religious perspective. The touchstone in proposing such differences would likely be based in the espoused values of the various religions and how they differ—or whether they differ!

Several insights can be offered from the research that has been conducted on gender and culture. In terms of gender and leadership, a good deal of research has been conducted on the effects of leader stereotypes. Studying stereotypes is important theoretically and practically, because a consensus perspective across researchers, as well as female leaders, is that “stereotypes are a potent barrier to women’s advancement to positions of leadership” (Koenig et al., 2011, p. 616). In a meta-analysis incorporating more than 200 effect sizes and over 70 independent studies, Koenig et al. demonstrated that the leader-as-male stereotype was supported across three different research paradigms. This is a problem for women because female stereotypes do not match expectations for leaders (Eagly & Karau, 2002). In terms of a good-news/bad-news scenario, the meta-analytic findings of Koenig et al. suggest that the male construal of leadership is decreasing over time, but is more strongly held by male than by female research participants. Thus, on the positive side the results suggest that leader stereotypes are changing for the better. On the negative side, if women are expected to convince powerful men of their leadership capabilities, the traditional stereotype of “leader as male” will make that especially difficult.

National culture is another aspect of diversity that has been widely researched (Den ­Hartog & Dickson, 2012). In a large-scale study of leadership and national (societal) culture, House and colleagues (2004) assessed among other things the culturally-endorsed leadership prototypes in 62 different cultures. This is a very relevant approach that goes to the heart of trying to understand how differently (or similarly) leadership is construed across a large number of different societies. The results suggested some culturally-contingent leader attributes (e.g. ambition, caution, enthusiasm) as well as some universally-positive leader attributes (e.g. trustworthiness, honesty, dependability, intelligence). We believe this is an important contribution because it highlights that there might be leader characteristics that transcend diversity in race, religion, disability, and other particular areas.

In recommending a way towards a more inclusive leadership theory in terms of diversity, Eagly & Chin (2010) advocate ending the “intellectual segregation” (p. 221) of various considerations of diversity (e.g. gender, race, culture, sexuality) from the mainstream leadership literature. They argue that the leadership literature needs to better address diversity concerns and draw on research and theory from the diversity literature in order to help address those concerns. But in the spirit of building greater rapprochement, diversity scholars are urged to consider the large, multidisciplinary knowledge base from the leadership literature, because of its potential for providing better understanding of issues of race, ethnicity, gender, and culture. It is difficult to argue with this recommendation as a way of bringing greater ­rapprochement to what have tended to be the separate fields of diversity and leadership.





11.4 Conclusion


We began this chapter with a brief overview of developments and changes in the leadership field as a function of the publication prevalence in a prominent specialty journal on the topic (The Leadership Quarterly; Gardner et al., 2010). What is apparent is that leadership is very much a “living” and evolving discipline. Certain theoretical approaches gain favor and then lose momentum. Others become popular, lose that popularity, and then resurge in interest (e.g. leader trait approaches). Because of the changing dynamics associated with the leadership field, it is difficult to state with certainty that the sociobiological, evolutionary, and diversity approaches that we have highlighted will continue to gain momentum. Nonetheless, we believe that these are particular areas that have not received sufficient research attention and yet that they offer unique frames through which to conceptualize and study leadership. Regardless of whether or not they “catch on” with researchers, we believe these leadership topics deserve greater future research scrutiny.

The majority of our review focused on two areas that are elemental to all scientific fields, including that of leadership: theory and method. If there is a take-away message from this focus, it is that the future of leadership may not reside solely in identifying additional content-topic domains. Instead (or perhaps in addition), the field needs to attend to some of the basic concerns of science. Without more clearly-defined constructs and tightly-­focused theories, the future of leadership will be limited. Without more careful consideration of the factors that limit or otherwise undermine the kinds of causal inference that are the hallmark of good science, the leadership field will be unable to fully inform business and education practices or public-policy issues. Leadership can be a potent force in shaping the experiences and effectiveness of individuals, groups, organizations, and societies. But to fully realize this potential, leadership needs to be conceptualized and studied in the most rigorous ways possible.

In conclusion, we are sanguine about the future of leadership. The leadership field has demonstrated a remarkable adaptability and tenacity in the face of many who would prefer to marginalize or otherwise neuter it. Despite these attempts, we can say with some scientific assurance that leadership matters, and by embracing better theory, more rigorous methods, and a focus on under-researched topics, the future of leadership will be unbridled.





References


Antonakis, J. (2011). Predictors of leadership: the usual suspects and the suspect traits. In D. Bryman, K. Collinson, B. Grint, B. Jackson, & M. Uhl-Bien, editors. The Sage Handbook of Leadership. London: Sage. pp. 269–285.

Antonakis, J. (2012). Transformational and charismatic leadership. In D.V. Day & J. Antonakis, ­editors. The Nature of Leadership, 2nd edition. Los Angeles, CA: Sage. pp. 256–288.

Antonakis, J. & Dalgas, O. (2009). Predicting elections: child’s play! Science, 323(5918), 1183.

Antonakis, J. & Jacquart, P. (2012). The far side of leadership. In M.C. Bligh & R.E. Riggio. When Near is Far and Far is Near: Distance in Leader-Follower Relationships. Wiley-Blackwell.

Antonakis, J., Bendahan, S., Jacquart, P., & Lalive, R. (2010). On making causal claims: a review and recommendations. The Leadership Quarterly, 21, 1086–1120.

Antonakis, J., Fenley, M., & Liechti, S. (2011). Can charisma can be taught? Tests of two interventions. Academy of Management Learning & Education, 10, 374–396.

Antonakis, J., Bendahan, S., Jacquart, P., & Lalive, R. (2012). Causality and endogeneity: problems and solutions. In D.V. Day, editor. The Oxford Handbook of Leadership and Organizations. New York: Oxford University Press.

Arvey, R.D., Wang, N., Song, Z., & Li, W. (2012). The biology of leadership. In D.V. Day, editor. The Oxford Handbook of Leadership and Organizations. New York: Oxford University Press.

Ayman, R. & Korabik, K. (2010). Leadership: why gender and culture matter. American Psychologist, 65, 157–170.

Bacharach, S.B. (1989). Organizational theories: some criteria for evaluation. Academy of Management Review, 14, 496–515.

Balthazard, P.A., Waldman, D.A., Thatcher, R.W., & Hannah, S.T. (2012). Differentiating transformational and non-transformational leaders on the basis of neurological imaging. The Leadership Quarterly.

Bass, B.M. (2008). The Bass Handbook of Leadership: Theory, Research, and Managerial Applications, 4th edition. New York: Free Press.

Bass, B.M. & Avolio, B.J. (2000). MLQ: Multifactor Leadership Questionnaire, 2nd edition. Redwood City, CA: Mind Garden.

Bass, B.M. & Riggio, R.E. (2006). Transformational Leadership, 2nd edition. Mahwah, NJ: Erlbaum.

Bollen, K.A. & Brand, J.E. (2010). A general panel model with random and fixed effects: a structural equations approach. Social Forces, 89(1), 1–34.

Carli, L.L. & Eagly, A.H. (2012). Leadership and gender. In D.V. Day & J. Antonakis, editors. The Nature of Leadership, 2nd edition. Los Angeles, CA: Sage. pp. 437–476.

Chen, G., Kirkman, B.L., Kanfer, R., Allen, D., & Rosen, B. (2007). A multilevel study of leadership, empowerment, and performance in teams. Journal of Applied Psychology, 92, 331–346.

Chin, J.L. (2010). Introduction to the special issue on diversity and leadership. American Psychologist, 65, 150–156.

Day, D.V. (2000). Leadership development: a review in context. The Leadership Quarterly, 11, 581–613.

Day, D.V. (2012a). Leadership. In S.W.J. Kozlowski, editor. The Oxford Handbook of Organizational Psychology. New York: Oxford University Press Vol.1, pp. 696–729.

Day, D.V. (2012b). Training and developing leaders: theory and research. In M. Rumsey, editor. The Many Sides of Leadership: A Handbook. New York: Oxford University Press.

Day, D.V. & Antonakis, J. (2012a). Leadership: Past, Present, and Future. In D.V. Day & J. Antonakis, editors. The Nature of Leadership, 2nd edition. Los Angeles, CA: Sage. pp. 3–25.

Day, D.V. & Antonakis, J., editors. (2012b). The Nature of Leadership, 2nd edition. Los Angeles, CA: Sage.

Day, D.V. & Harrison, M.M. (2007). A multilevel, identity-based approach to leadership development. Human Resource Management Review, 17, 360–373.

Day, D.V., Harrison, M.M., & Halpin, S.M. (2009). An Integrative Approach to Leader Development: Connecting Adult Development, Identity, and Expertise. New York: Routledge.

Day, D.V. & Lord, R.G. (1988). Executive leadership and organizational performance: suggestions for a new theory and methodology. Journal of Management, 14, 453–464.

Day, D.V. & Sin, H.-P. (2011). Longitudinal tests of an integrative model of leader development: charting and understanding developmental trajectories. Leadership Quarterly, 22, 545–560.

Day, D.V. & Zaccaro, S.J. (2007). Leadership: a critical historical analysis of the influence of leader traits. In L.L. Koppes, editor. Historical Perspectives in Industrial and Organizational Psychology. Mahwah, NJ: Erlbaum. pp. 383–405.

Den Hartog, D.N. & Dickson, M.W. (2012). Leadership and culture. In D.V. Day & J. Antonakis, editors. The Nature of Leadership, 2nd edition. Los Angeles, CA: Sage. pp. 393–436.

Drath, W.H., McCauley, C.D., Palus, C.J., Van Velsor, E., O’Connor, P.M.G., & McGuire, J.B. (2008). Direction, alignment, commitment: toward a more integrative ontology of leadership. Leadership Quarterly, 19, 635–653.

Duncan, T.E., Duncan, S.C., & Strycker, L.A. (2006). An introduction to latent variable growth curve modeling: concepts, issues, and applications, 2nd edition. Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum.

Dvir, T., Eden, D., Avolio, B.J., & Shamir, B. (2002). Impact of transformational leadership on follower development and performance: a field experiment. Academy of Management Journal, 45, 735–744.

Eagly, A.H. & Carli, L.L. (2007). Through the labyrinth: the truth about how women become leaders. Boston, MA: Harvard Business School.

Eagly, A.H. & Chin, J.L. (2010). Diversity and leadership in a changing world. American Psychologist, 65, 216–224.

Eagly, A.H. & Karau, S.J. (2002). Role congruity theory of prejudice toward female leaders. Psychological Review, 109, 573–598.

Edwards, J.R. & Lambert, L.S. (2007). Methods for integrating moderation and mediation: a ­general analytical framework using moderated path analysis. Psychological Methods, 12, 1–22.

Fassinger, R.E., Shullman, S.L., & Stevenson, M.R. (2010). Toward an affirmative lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender leadership paradigm. American Psychologist, 65, 201–215.

Gardner, W.L., Avolio, B.J., Luthans, F., May, D.R., & Walumbwa, F. (2005). “Can you see the real me?” A self-based model of authentic leader and follower development. Leadership Quarterly, 16, 343–372.

Gardner, W.L., Lowe, K.B., Moss, T.W., Mahoney, K.T., & Cogliser, C.C. (2010). Scholarly leadership of the study of leadership: a review of The Leadership Quarterly’s second decade, 2000–2009. Leadership Quarterly, 21, 922–958.

Hackman, J.R. & Wageman, R. (2007). Asking the right questions about leadership. American Psychologist, 62, 43–47.

Halaby, C.N. (2004). Panel models in sociological research: theory into practice. Annual Review of Sociology, 30, 507–544.

Hamilton, B.H. & Nickerson, J.A. (2003). Correcting for endogeneity in strategic management research. Strategic Organization, 1, 51–78.

Hausman, J.A. (1978). Specification tests in econometrics. Econometrica, 46, 1251–1271.

Heckman, J.J. (1979). Sample selection bias as a specification eror. Econometrica, 47, 153–161.

Hofstede, G.H. (1997). Cultures and Organizations: Software of the Mind, rev. ed. New York: McGraw-Hill.

House, R.J. & Aditya, R.N. (1997). The social scientific study of leadership: quo vadis? Journal of Management, 23, 409–473.

House, R.J., Hanges, P.J., Javidan, M., Dorfman, P.W., & Gupta, V. (2004). Culture, Leadership, and Organizations: The GLOBE Study of 62 Societies. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage.

Hollander, E.P. (2009). Inclusive Leadership: The Essential Leader-Follower Relationship. New York: Routledge.

Judge, T.A., Piccolo, R.F., & Ilies, R. (2004). The forgotten ones? The validity of consideration and initiating structure in leadership research. Journal of Applied Psychology, 89, 36–51.

Koenig, A.M., Eagly, A.H., Mitchell, A.A., & Ristikari, T. (2011). Are leader stereotypes masculine? A meta-analysis of three research paradigms. Psychological Bulletin, 137, 616–642.

Lee, N., Senior, C., & Butler, M. (2012). Leadership research and cognitive neuroscience: the state of this union. The Leadership Quarterly.

Liden, R.C., & Antonakis, J. (2009). Considering context in psychological leadership research. Human Relations, 62, 1587–1605.

Liden, R.C., Wayne, S.J., Zhao, H., & Henderson, D. (2008). Servant leadership: development of a multidimensional measure and multi-level assessment. The Leadership Quarterly, 19, 161–177.

Lieberson, S. & O’Connor, J.F. (1972). Leadership and organizational performance: a study of large corporations. American Sociological Review, 37, 117–130.

Lim, B.-C. & Ployhart, R.E. (2004). Transformational leadership: relations to the five-factor model and team performance in typical and maximum contexts. Journal of Applied Psychology, 89, 610–621.

Livers, A.B. & Caver, K.A. (2003). Leading in black and white: working across the racial divide in corporate America. San Francisco, CA: Jossey-Bass.

Locke, E.A. (2003). Foundations for a theory of leadership. In S.E. Murphy & R.E. Riggio, editors. The Future of Leadership Development. Mahwah, NJ: Erlbaum. pp. 29–46.

Lord, R.G. & Brown, D.J. (2004). Leadership Processes and Follower Self-identity. Mahwah, NJ: Erlbaum.

Lord, R.G. & Hall, R.J. (2005). Identity, deep structure, and the development of leadership skill. The Leadership Quarterly, 16, 591–615.

Meindl, J.R. & Ehrlich, S.B. (1987). The romance of leadership and the evaluation of organizational performance. Academy of Management Journal, 30, 90–109.

Meindl, J.R., Ehrlich, S.B., & Dukerich, J.M. (1985). The romance of leadership. Administrative Science Quarterly, 30, 78–102.

Miner, J.B. (1975). The uncertain future of the leadership concept: an overview. In J.G. Hunt & L.L. Larson, editors. Leadership Frontiers. Kent, OH: Kent State University. pp. 197–208

Mundlak, Y. (1978). Pooling of time-series and cross-section data. Econometrica, 46, 69–85.

Pfeffer, J. (1977). The ambiguity of leadership. Academy of Management Review, 2, 104–112.

Preacher, K.J., Rucker, D.D., & Hayes, A.F. (2007). Addressing moderated mediation hypotheses: theory, methods, and prescriptions. Multivariate Behavioral Research, 42, 185–227.

Preacher, K.J., Zyphur, M.J., & Zhang, Z. (2010). A general multilevel SEM framework for ­assessing multilevel mediation. Psychological Methods, 15, 209–233.

Raudenbush, S.W. & Bryk, A.S. (2002). Hierarchical Linear Models: Applications and Data Analysis Methods, 2nd edition. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage.

Riggio, R.E. & Mumford, M.D. (2011). Introduction to the special issue: longitudinal studies of leadership development. The Leadership Quarterly, 22, 453–456.

Salancik, G.R. & Pfeffer, J. (1977). Constraints on administrator discretion: the limited influence of mayors on city budgets. Urban Affairs Quarterly, 12, 475–498.

Sanchez-Hucles, J.V. & Davis, D.D. (2010). Women and women of color in leadership: complexity, identity, and intersectionality. American Psychologist, 65, 171–181.

Simonton, D.K. (2002). Intelligence and presidential greatness: equation replication using updated IQ estimates. Advances in Psychology Research, 13, 163–174.

Simonton, D.K. (2006). Presidential IQ, openness, intellectual brilliance, and leadership: estimates and correlations for 42 US chief executives. Political Psychology, 27, 511–526.

Suddaby, R. (2010). Editor’s comments: construct clarity in theories of management and organization. Academy of Management Review, 35, 346–357.

Sutton, R.I. & Staw, B.M. (1995). What theory is not. Administrative Science Quarterly, 40, 371–384.

Waldman, D.A., Balthazard, P.A., & Peterson, S.J. (2012). Social cognitive neuroscience and leadership. The Leadership Quarterly.

Walumba, F.O., Avolio, B.J., Gardner, W.L., Wernsing, T.S., & Peterson, S.J. (2008). Authentic leadership: development and validation of a theory-based measure. Journal of Management, 34, 89–126.

Yammarino, F.J., Dionne, S.D., Uk Chun, J., & Dansereau, F. (2005). Leadership and levels of ­analysis: a state-of-the-science review. The Leadership Quarterly, 16, 879–919.

Van Vugt, M. (2010). Selected: why some people lead, why others follows, and why it matters. London: Profile Books.

Van Vugt, M. (2012). The nature in leadership: evolutionary, biological, and social neuroscience perspectives. In D.V. Day & J. Antonakis, editors. The Nature of Leadership, 2nd edition. Los Angeles, CA: Sage. pp. 141–175.

Van Vugt, M. & Schaller, M. (2008). Evolutionary approaches to group dynamics: an introduction. Group Dynamics: Theory Research and Practice, 12, 1–6.

Van Vugt, M., Hogan, R., & Kaiser, R.B. (2008). Leadership, followership, and evolution—some lessons from the past. American Psychologist, 63, 182–196.

Zaccaro, S.J., Kemp, C., & Bader, P. (2004). Leader traits and attributes. In J. Antonakis, A.T. Cianciolo & R.J. Sternberg, editors. The Nature of Leadership. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage. pp. 104–124.

Zyphur, M.J., Narayanan, J., Koh, G., & Koh, D. (2009). Testosterone-status mismatch lowers collective efficacy in groups: evidence from a slope-as-predictor multilevel structural equation model. Organizational Behavior and Human Decision Processes, 110, 70–79.





Part II


Change





12


The History and Current Status of Organizational and Systems Change


H. Skipton Leonard





12.1 Historical Foundations


The matter of the impact and process of change has been on the minds of humans from the dawn of civilization. It is thought that the origins of the I Ching, the classic Book of Changes of the ancient Chinese civilization, used by fortune tellers and oracles, can be found as early as 1150 BC1 (Blofeld, 1968) and used by fortune tellers and oracles. The philosophical treatment of change using the I Ching is generally attributed to Confucius and his followers and disciples, beginning around 500 BC (Wilhelm, 1960). The I Ching/Confucian philosophical position on change is that it is constant: “Change: that is the unchangeable” (Wilhelm, 1060, p. 23). In the I Ching/Confucian view, change and ­stability are of one; they are “neither kernel nor husk—heart and mind function together undivided” (Wilhelm, 1960, p. 13). This understanding is expressed in the three ­definitions of “I” in the I Ching: the “easy, the changing, and the constant” (Wilhelm, 1960, p. 15).

At about the same period in the Mediterranean, Heraclitus of Ephesus made parallel statements about the nature of change and stasis, holding that “life was movement that developed through the conflict of opposites” (Wilhelm, 1960, p. 13). In Heraclitus’ view, nothing is permanent except change.2

Despite the apparent similarities between the Chinese and Greek cultural ­viewpoints, there are important and characteristic differences. The I Ching/Confucian approach sees a complementarity and harmony between change and stability (Wilhelm, 1960). There is a unity to the two principles; in effect, they are two sides of the same coin. For Heraclitus, in contrast, a higher order of lawfulness, the logos, promotes and shapes change (Wilhelm, 1960), creating coherency out of chaos. The unity and ­contrast between permanence, ubiquity, and stasis appear repeatedly in the various approaches to understanding change that will be reviewed in this chapter. Each ­theorist and practitioner must incorporate, ­integrate, and grapple with these eternal truths in their models of change or change management.





12.2 Distinctions, Debates, and Controversies


A number of ongoing distinctions, debates, and controversies are apparent in the ­literature regarding organizational change. They often take the form of polar positions and ­sometimes of contradictory evidence advanced by researchers and theorists. In some cases, the dialectical debate has resulted in a useful synthesis of antithetical ­positions. For example, a number of researchers working in the post-World War II era viewed systems as largely inertial that continually trended towards homeostasis and equilibrium (Hannan & Freeman, 1984; Katz & Kahn, 1978). Others, viewing organizational change through the lens of the economically-disruptive 1970s, 80s, and 90s, viewed organizations as existing in an environment of continuous “whitewater,” with decreasing periods of calm and ­stability (Vaill, 1996). From this debate emerged a synthesis of these positions: punctuated equilibrium (Miller & Friesen, 1984; Tushman & Romanelli, 1985). In this model, ­organizations may experience extended periods of relative calm and equilibrium in which an evolutionary, convergent approach to change works well. However, the rapid incorporation of technology and ­advancement of knowledge makes punctuated, divergent, and radical change inevitable and ­therefore necessary.

This section provides an overview of a number of these issues, which continue to shape and influence the thinking of scholars, researchers, and practitioners.





12.2.1 Whether object or agent of change


Change can be a very different experience depending upon whether you are reacting to it (i.e. are the object of change) or are trying to bring it about (i.e. you are the agent of change). If you are the object of change, it is easy to conclude, like Heraclitus (Wheelwright, 1959), that change is constant, ubiquitous, and inexorable. From this perspective, it is also easy to see why many people in an organization will, at least initially, resist change. If one takes the perspective of a person who is being asked to change, it would make sense to take a much more cautious and evolutionary approach that carefully involves all major stakeholders and end users in the planning and implementation of the change (Cummings & Worley, 2008; Hedberg et al., 1976; McLean, 2005).

If, however, you are the agent of change, the process may appear more daunting. Most leaders and managers can attest to the difficulty of bringing about significant and necessary change in complex organizations. A number of sources have documented the rather low success rate for organizational-change interventions. For instance, Schaffer & Thompson (1992) reported that 63% of firms using total quality management (TQM) fail to increase quality by even 10%. Likewise, Spector & Beer (1994) found that the overall success rate for TQM is less than 25%. Davenport (1995) reported that 67% of business process ­reengineering efforts yield mediocre, marginal, or failed results.

The difficulty that agents of change have in bringing about transformational or divergent (from current strategies, practices, policies, etc.) change is explained by Hannan & Freeman (1984) as being the result of the natural inertial and conservative characteristics of organizations and social systems. Natural selection in the marketplace “favors forms of ­organizations with high reliability of performance and high levels of accountability” (p. 154). Only large and significant internal or external stressors or crises are capable of overcoming the micro-adaptive and protective instincts that guide the decisions of leaders and managers.

Furthermore, Hannan & Freeman (1984) note that the process of large strategic and structural organizational change makes transformational action unstable. The longer this process takes, the greater the risk of failure. Moreover, the fundamental changes wrought in transformational change mean that, in effect, the organization is being reborn and is subject to all the risks inherent in the start-up of a new organization.

It is no wonder that organizational resistance to inevitably disruptive transformational change primarily resides in the middle-management and individual-contributor levels of the organization that are or will be the objects of the change effort. Senior leadership, in contrast, recognizing and having experienced numerous failed efforts to make transformational change, often discards its normal cautious and conservative leadership approaches to seize the opportunity afforded by crises and threats to propose rapid, large strategic and structural changes in the organization. Rahm Emanuel, President Obama’s Chief of Staff, cited this principle in promoting the ambitious agenda included in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 when he stated, “Never let a serious crisis go to waste. What I mean by that is it’s an opportunity to do things you couldn’t do before” (Emanuel, 2009).

Gersick (1991) proposes a cognitive model that describes the process during periods of crisis/threat-driven change. Following a period of confusion and questioning, leaders and managers synthesize a new vision. Referring to the paradigmatic change discussed by Kuhn (1996), Gersick (1991) notes that in larger systems, “The new direction does not emerge all at once; instead, a catalytic change opens the door to it” (p. 29).





12.2.2 Adaptation versus selection—do organizations really change?


A related debate among change theorists is whether organizations really have the capacity to change (Demers, 2007). The issue is not whether organizations change, because we have ample evidence that they do. It is whether they have the capacity to recognize the need to change, the ability to develop a rational plan to accomplish that change, and the political and implementation skills necessary to make it happen. This capacity has been termed “voluntary change”3 (Demers, 2007). A related issue is whether organizations can accomplish these changes rapidly enough to complete them before another crisis or threat emerges.

The relatively stable economic and political period after World War II and the optimism inspired by the victory over totalitarian forces led most scholars, researchers, and practitioners to assume that change could be brought about through rational and well-planned processes (Bennis et al., 1969; Golembiewski, 1972). During this period, change was equated with expansion, which seemed a normal and natural process (Demers, 2007). This assumption supported the belief that change is gradual, progressive, and emergent (Demers, 2007; Starbuck, 1971).

During this period, one group of theorists espoused the view that organizations could be very purposeful and strategic in initiating change (Child, 1972, 1997; Penrose, 1952; Pfeffer & Salancik, 1978; Oliver, 1991; Sherer & Lee, 2002). They could, proactively, deliberately, and gradually, change themselves to achieve a strategic fit by choosing or influencing their environment (Demers, 2007).

A second group of scholars perceived a more reactive and reflective response—still ­rational—to crises, threats, and pressures perceived in their economic environment (Burns & Stalker, 1961; Donaldson, 1996; Lawrence & Lorsch, 1969; Thompson, 1967). In this approach, the change initiated would be contingent upon a number of factors (economic environment, technologies involved, size, etc.) (Demers, 2007). The process of change in this view is seen as involving “reactive, deliberate, piecemeal, gradual changes of strategy and/or structure to achieve functional equilibrium in reaction to change in contingencies” (Demers, 2007, p.7).

The dominant change model during this era was Lewin’s notion of planned change through unfreezing, changing, and refreezing (Lewin, 1947b, 1958), combined with ­variants of general systems theory (GST) (Katz & Kahn, 1978; von Bertalanffy, 1950) and sociotechnical systems (STSs) (de Green, 1973; Emery & Trist, 1965). These models remain the core theoretical frameworks for a large majority of organizational-development (OD) practitioners and theorists to this day (see Cummings & Worley, 2008).

These change models also generally assume, following GST, that the normal state for organizational systems is a dynamic equilibrium, with forces for change being balanced by forces resisting a change in performance level. This assumption is the basis for the well-known force-field analysis methodology (Lewin, 1943). Lewin (1947a) made it clear that the equilibrium level for an organizational system wasn’t set but could be moved through ­effective intervention.4 The implication of this model is that incremental change with careful attention to the system factors resisting change is a more effective approach than trying to drive change by pressuring or threatening system stakeholders or constituencies.

The optimism of this period came to a close with the disruptions of the oil embargo in 1973 and the economic downturn and stagnation of the 1970s and early 1980s (Demers, 2007). These events ushered in a pessimistic period, with theorists and practitioners wondering whether organizations had the capacity for appropriate voluntary change that was rapid enough to revitalize themselves and ensure survival. A number of scholars, based upon the experience of this later period, concluded that radical, nonincremental, and divergent changes to current strategy and structure are rare because of the inertia internal to an organization. Schumpeter’s (1942/1975) concept of creative destruction came into vogue once again. Furthermore, they believed that radical and divergent change renders an organization ­vulnerable to a number of new, unexpected, or poorly-understood factors and increases the probability that the organization will fail to survive (Demers, 2002). Viewing organizations as cautious, conservative systems with a preference for convergent thinking, these authors believed that only the shock of a life-threatening event could overcome their inertia to produce the rapid, frame-shifting changes necessary for survival (Hannon & Freeman, 1984).

In keeping with this model, Hannan & Freeman (1984) described change as “the creation of new organizations and the demise of old ones” (p. 12). Implied by this view is that organizational change follows the Darwinian model of evolution: environmental ­failure leads to extinction, with a newer, more innovative, generation taking over. Change, therefore, is an intergenerational process in which only new organizations acquire new traits, rather than a Lamarckian system in which new traits can be learned within a ­generation (Van de Ven & Poole, 1995).





12.2.3 Top-down versus bottom-up change


Change initiated by decisions made by top leadership is commonly thought of as “top-down” (Demers, 2007). In contrast, change that begins with grassroots involvement and decisions that “bubble up” to top leadership is commonly thought of as “bottom-up” (Demers, 2007). Those who believe that planned change is possible, if not preferable, tend to make decisions about strategic goals and develop an implementation plan that is pushed down through the organization. This decision style has been described as “­strategic choice” by Child (1972). In practice, this approach is termed strategic management5 (Hamel et al., 1999).

While most strategic-management practitioners would, undoubtedly, recommend close consultation and collaboration with key stakeholders and constituents in developing implementation plans and managing the change process (Freeman, 1984), the strategic goals and top-level strategy would nevertheless be developed by top leadership. If for no other reason, this consultation should occur in order to prevent stakeholder groups from organizing through political action to resist the planned change (Demers, 2007; Quinn, 1980).

While there is less literature that systematically discusses bottom-up change (Demers, 2007), the action-research variant of OD provides a methodology for surfacing the views of various stakeholder groups, from top management to end users, to provide implementation plans that benefit from both insights across hierarchies and functional units and a reduction in political action that might impede the eventual implementation process (French & Bell, 1973). The action-research approach is closely linked to Lewin’s (1947b) unfreezing–changing–refreezing model, whereby organizations desiring to bring about change first conduct extensive data-collection and feedback activities with all ­organizational groups and stakeholders who will be affected by, or have interests in, the changes or goals to be achieved. The change agents then work with the client organization to develop the implementation plan.

Political action, however, is not always seen as a negative factor in organizational change. Kanter (1983), in studying change in 10 large corporations, noted the positive role of politics in successful bottom-up change efforts. In her analysis, large “macrochange” often occurred following the accumulation of many “microchanges” that were promoted by individuals or stakeholder groups. She observed there was a direct correlation between the power allowed by individuals and stakeholder groups and the ability of an organization to avoid stagnation through continuous innovation.

Action learning, not to be confused with action research, also makes implicit ­assumptions about the importance of grassroots knowledge and interests in developing superior ­solutions to complex and vexing problems. Marquardt et al. (2009) require that action-learning teams have sufficient diversity in status, knowledge, and perspective to ensure not only that the problem analysis includes a broad shared understanding and agreement on what the root problem is and what contributes to that problem but also that their formal and tacit knowledge are included when formulating an implementation plan.





12.2.4 Methodology of inquiry: dynamic versus descriptive


A distinction can be made between models that are based upon efforts to change ­organizations and those that describe how organizations have already changed. The former perspective can be described as a dynamic one, in which a practical theory of change is developed by taking action, reflecting on the result, drawing conclusions about what ­promoted or interfered with change, and adjusting accordingly. This learning paradigm was popularized by Kolb (1984). Lewin is rightfully revered as a social psychologist because of his insistence that theory is of practical as well as intellectual value: “nothing is as practical as a good theory” (Marrow, 1972, p. 169). Lewin also noted that the best way to learn about an organization or system is to try to change it (Marrow, 1972). This is the change model that forms the dynamic basis for specific change strategies such as action learning (Marquardt et al., 2009).





12.2.5 Four lenses on change


Van de Ven & Poole (2004) have described four basic models (or, in their terms, engines) of change that integrate much of the thinking described in the organizational-change literature.





12.2.5.1 Teleological


Perhaps the most popular model, because it aligns so well with typical OD practice models, this includes a cycle of goal-formulation, implementation, evaluation, and action- or goal-modification based upon what is learned or what is desired by the organization or social system. This model aligns well with Lewinian thinking as articulated by theorists such as Kolb (1984). It focuses upon purposeful enactment, social construction, and consensus—all familiar and comfortable operational concepts for mainstream OD and change-management theorists and practitioners.





12.2.5.2 Life cycle


This model is also quite popular in the OD and change-management literature. It describes the process of organizational change in terms of stages of development from the “birth” to the “death” or demise of an organization. These stages frequently describe a cycle that includes: (1) start-up, (2) growth, (3) harvest or maturity, (4) decline, (5) life crisis, and (6) renewal or death. The model focuses on forecasting of growth/decline, appropriate regulation of growth and development, and compliant adaptation. It borrows heavily from the frameworks developed in GST (Katz & Kahn, 1978; von Bertalanffy, 1969).





12.2.5.3 Evolution


Evolutionary models describe a repetitive sequence based upon a Darwinian (Darwin, 1859) framework of natural variation, selection of the most able or fit, and retention of these characteristics in future generations. The popular “best-practice” approach to organizational decision-making follows this model. Competition for scarce resources drives the process.





12.2.5.4 Dialectic


This model borrows from a Hegelian model of change, where conflicts developing between organizations and social systems produce a synthesis and an accepted model, which is later confronted by newer approaches and ideas (Benson, 1977). Confrontation and conflict provide the energy for inevitable change and progress (measured in terms of survival). Schumpeter’s (1942) model of creative destruction has much in common with this.





12.3 Prospectus: Major Theories of Change


The organizing frameworks or lenses described in this section provide the foundational concepts or principles which support a large percentage of the formal models proposed for organizational-change practice that are variously described as OD or change management. The reader will probably note how many of these principles have been incorporated into specific organizational-change models that are or have been popular in OD and change consultation. The reader will also undoubtedly notice that many of the concepts and principles discussed later in the section have not been operationalized sufficiently to serve as complete OD or change models. It is hoped, however, that practitioners and consultants, informed by these concepts and principles, will develop more sophisticated and nuanced plans for helping organizations and systems promote and respond to change.

Each organizing framework or lens has been selected for its coherency rather than its applicability to all situations. Some of the models have had some very specialized applications, such as paradoxical communication (Watzlawick et al., 1974), while others, such as GST (Katz & Kahn, 1978; von Bertalanffy, 1950, 1969), are very robust and have been applied to a multitude of situations. The more specialized models, however, have a completeness or coherency for certain situations and therefore should be considered by ­organizational-change theorists and practitioners alike.

The focus of this review will be upon organizational or systems change, although some presentation of individual change will be provided if it is relevant to the dominant focus on organizations and systems. For instance, a number of authors have related recent advances in neuroscience to change (Lawrence, 2010). Each of these lenses can be very valuable in efforts to understand or conceptualize change that may be observed or that has happened. Each has advantages and limitations in suggesting strategies for either dealing with and adjusting to change or for facilitating and supporting change. The reader may find it useful to apply one framework in addressing one kind or area of change and another in addressing a situation that does not include the governing variable highlighted in the first.





12.3.1 Lewinian approaches to change


Lewin’s early effort to use behavioral-science theory to solve real, practical problems (Lewin, 1943, 1947a, 1947b) served as an inspiration for a whole generation of social and behavioral scientists immediately after World War II. Learning from efforts to change social systems, Lewin’s students and those familiar with his work launched the ­experiential-learning/laboratory-education movement which dominates “Western”6 academic education and management/leadership training today. Many of this movement’s well-known innovations, such as T-groups, “flip charts,” feedback sessions, and team-building exercises, were developed at the National Training Laboratories (NTL) by Lewin’s students and admirers in the years and decades following his untimely death in 1947 (Bradford, 1967; Marrow, 1967). The roots for the organizational- and systems-change approach that has been termed “OD” are deeply embedded in this tradition (Bennis, 1969).

Lewin was initially interested in going into medicine but later decided to study the related field of biology. When his interests shifted to the study of psychology,7 he was strongly influenced by the Gestalt school that was popular in Germany at the time (Marrow, 1974). This approach applied a holistic/dynamic rather than deterministic/reductionist approach to the study of perception and psychological experience (Boring, 1950).

In keeping with this tradition, he developed his field theory and applied it to both ­personality and social systems, which he viewed as different units of analysis in the psychological field (Lewin, 1951a). For Lewin, behavior could not be understood merely by identifying a linear causal sequence of precipitating events. To understand behavior, one needed to understand the relevant variables in the environment at that time, as well as dynamic factors within the individual or individuals. He expressed this relationship as B = ƒ(P,E); behavior is a function of the person and his or her environment (Lewin, 1943).

His well-known force-field analysis (Lewin, 1943) is a good example of how this rather theoretical expression can be applied to very practical problems. He reasoned that any behavior that showed stable characteristics must be in some form of dynamic equilibrium. Therefore, to change the behavior to a new one or to a new level of the same behavior, the change agent needed to understand both all the relevant forces driving the new behavior and all the relevant forces resisting any change in behavior. With this analysis completed, the change agent could either increase the driving forces or reduce the restraining forces, thereby eliminating the equilibrium.8

Lewin’s field theory was a dramatic departure from the deterministic and reductionist psychoanalytic models of change that were popular at the time. Unfortunately, Lewin died before he could develop his ideas about change and social systems further. Fortunately, his students (such as Ron Lippitt, Morton Deutsch, Leon Festinger, Bluma Zeigarnik, Maria Ovsiankina, Kate Lissner, and Vera Mahler) did develop them. The field of study we now term group dynamics was inspired by Lewin and was largely developed by students and disciples of, or believers in, his principles for change (see Cartwright & Zander, 1968).

For all those who followed Lewin, change was an experimental process which involved taking action based upon existing theories and ideas, observing the results of the action, developing better models for understanding the behavior and making better predictions, and then modifying the change efforts accordingly. Lewin’s was a contemporaneous, forward-looking model based upon action, an approach that was in contrast to the backward-looking, passive analysis of behavior that seemed to characterize psychoanalytic theory. This experimental, contemporaneous, forward-looking stance can be seen in many change strategies that were significantly influenced by Lewin, such as OD (Cummings & Worley, 2008), change management (Kotter, 1996), and action learning (Marquardt et al., 2009).

Further, while the psychoanalytic models of behavior that prevailed during Lewin’s time and the mid-20th century provided valuable understanding of the individual as well as the social dynamics of human behavior (Diamond, 1993; Freud, 1930/2005; Kets de Vries, 1984; Levinson, 2006), these theories relied primarily upon increasing insight to change behavior. Lewin’s action-based approach was a welcome contrast to the rather passive change approaches developed by psychoanalytically-inspired theorists. Lewin’s model, therefore, was enthusiastically embraced by those who believed that rationally-based, planned-change strategies were ideally suited to bring about the social-change campaigns that emerged in the mid-20th century (e.g. democratization of national politics and organizations, civil and human rights, and global economic development). Recognizing Lewin’s contributions, many psychoanalytically-grounded theorists also embraced his practice models for enacting organizational change (see Kilburg, 2000).

The following principles/practices of organization and social change can be traced back to Lewin and the influential Lewinian school of social psychology.





12.3.1.1 Data-based decision-making and feedback


Lewin’s well-known dictum that “nothing is as practical as a good theory” (Marrow, 1952, p. 169) not only demonstrated his belief in the practical as well as theoretical value of theory, but also marked a pivot-point in research in psychology and the behavioral sciences. Previous research in experimental psychology had been primarily conducted in a laboratory, where an effort was made to control for all variables other than the one or two under study (see Boring, 1950). This, of course, violated Lewin’s belief that research must study the normal environment in which an event or phenomenon occurs—methodology that is difficult or nearly impossible to achieve in a sterile experimental laboratory. At least in psychology,9 Lewin is considered the father of what has been termed “field research,” the study of events or phenomena in their natural environments.

Followers of Lewin, particularly in the field of OD, embraced Lewin’s emphasis on the pragmatics of research in developing action-research models and methods (Argyris, 1970; Greenwood & Levin, 1998; Lewin, 1946). In the action-research approach, practical methods of research, including surveys and interviews of organizational employees, stakeholders, and clients, as well as direct observation and analysis of behavioral data (French & Bell, 1973), are used. The action-research method is reiterative and generally includes the following action cycle: (1) action planning to achieve a goal, (2) taking action, (3) assessing the effects of the action, (4) reflecting on the implications of the action, (5) making any necessary modifications to the initial action plan, and (6) taking action based upon the preceding analysis and modification of the plan (Freedman, 2006). Data collection and research can be conducted during any stage in the cycle, but particularly in stages 1, 3, and 4.

The notion of feedback is particularly important in the action-research model. The output of most academically-oriented research is scholarly publication for other scholars and the academic community. In contrast, the audience for the output or findings of action research primarily comprises organizational decision-makers and the change agents themselves. Another philosophical as well as operational distinction between action research and academically-oriented research is that the analysis of the data in action research is generally led by organizational members (employees as well as leadership), rather than by the researchers who gathered the data. The notion of “feedback loops” created by this feedback process is often associated with GST or cybernetics (computer) theory. The feedback process, however, was observed and identified as a potent change strategy even earlier, by Lewin (1946), as the result of an academic/community-development effort to deal with race-relations difficulties in New Britain, Connecticut. As a result of this early “action research,” feedback loops and processes have been designed into virtually all OD or laboratory-education processes since.





12.3.1.2 Unfreezing–changing–refreezing change model


The force-field analysis that has already been addressed in this chapter (Lewin, 1943) forms the basis for this fundamental change model. Once a force-field analysis has been completed, change agents can create an action plan to increase driving forces, reduce restraining forces, or combine these two approaches to “unfreeze” the current equilibrium or status quo. Based upon his change experience, Lewin (1947a) recommended an emphasis on reducing restraining forces when the issue involved significant elements of personal or organizational threat.

Once a new desired level or form of behavior is achieved, the change agent takes action to stabilize and achieve a new equilibrium. During the time in which this model was ­developed, long periods of relative quiet and stability could be anticipated between ­organizational crises or change initiatives. As Vaill noted as early as 1996, this assumption of relatively smooth sailing between patches of “white water” no longer seems valid; the pace of change and organizational disruption has only increased over the intervening years (Marquardt et al., 2009).

While the basic “unfreezing, changing, and refreezing” model has necessarily been ­modified over the years, it continues to be widely used in various forms by change-­management practitioners (see Kotter, 1996). Recognizing the increasing turbulence in the organizational environment, the general trend has been to split the larger action-research cycle into changes with smaller-scale and shorter time spans. Figure 12.1 provides a visual ­presentation of a realistic action-research process in the context of expected turbulence.

Figure 12.1 Visual presentation of the Action Research process in a contemporary change initiative. Adapted from the Complete Social Scientist: A Kurt Lewin Reader (pp. 265–284), edited by M. Gold, 1948, Washington, DC: American Psychological Association. Copyright 1948 by the American Psychological Association.





12.3.1.3 Participation in planning and decision-making


One key principle in OD and change-management methods is that participation in planning and decision-making generates more engagement and ownership in the change process and, consequently, less resistance and more support for the change plan that is ultimately developed. This strongly-held principle was so well established by the mid-1960s that it was incorporated into Rensis Likert’s (1967) System 4. This model was based upon a series of studies using action research and survey feedback to effect organizational change, conducted by the Survey Research Center, part of the Institute for Social Research at Michigan, which continued Lewin’s pioneering work at MIT’s Research Center for Group Dynamics. Likert (1967) consolidated and ranked organizations into four systems of management, each yielding increasing levels of productivity, quality, and member satisfaction:

Exploitive authoritative (System 1)—Exhibits an autocratic, top-down approach to leadership.

Benevolent authoritative (System 2)—Similar to System 1, except that management is more paternalistic.

Consultative (System 3)—Involves more employee interaction, communication, and decision-making.

Participative group (System 4)—The opposite of System 1. Designed around group decision-making and supervision. This system promotes high degrees of member involvement and participation. Communication is both lateral and vertical and decisions are linked by overlapping group membership (Likert, 1967).



This body of research and practice experience was also incorporated into Blake & Mouton’s (1964) management-grid approach, also built upon a series of studies at the University of Michigan, which strongly indicated two distinct but important elements of managerial behavior: (1) concern for production and (2) concern for people (Katz & Kahn, 1952).

Despite the strong belief that OD theorists and practitioners have in the causal link of participation → engagement → ownership → support for strategic change, until recently, limited evidence of direct relationships between these variables was available (Lines, 2004). Lines (2004), however, has reported strong relationships between participation and five change outcomes: goal achievement, resistance to change, loyalty, effort, and identification. Adjusted R2 (percentage accounted for by participation) ranged from .15 (effort) to .31 (resistance), and the related significance levels were all less than .001. This is strong evidence indeed, and provides significant support for the faith that OD and change-management practitioners and theorists place in this factor.





12.3.1.4 Attitude formation


One of Lewin’s students, Leon Festinger, developed two principles that have gained great currency in OD and social psychology. The first was his notion of social reality (Festinger, 1954). Festinger demonstrated that what people consider “reality” is socially based. In other words, people use other people’s perceptions in establishing what they consider to be real. He noted that this social-comparison process often has more power and weight than actual measures of reality. The notion that “perception is reality” seems universally accepted now, in large measure because of the work of Festinger and other social psychologists (see Asch, 1951) in the 1950s and 1960s. This principle, along with the principle of feedback, serves as the basis for “360-degree surveys,” which provide feedback to employees and managers from their subordinates, colleagues, customers, and bosses.

The other well-known principle developed by Festinger was his theory of cognitive dissonance (Festinger, 1957). This states that holding two inconsistent ideas at the same time leads to mental “tension,” which causes one or both of the ideas to be modified in order to reduce “cognitive dissonance.” One implication of this principle is that changing behavior will also change attitudes when they are inconsistent with each other.





12.3.1.5 Group cohesiveness and identification


The power of group cohesiveness and identification was first noted in the well-known “Hawthorne effect” (Mayo, 1949), one conclusion of which was that production goes up merely because of the attention workers receive, rather than because of any objective changes in working conditions. It was also noted, however, that production could be depressed when the pressure to increase it broke informal norms established by the team regarding a fair wage for their work. There seemed to be pressure for behavior conformity to resist “rate-busting.” Schacter et al. (1951) provided additional experimental evidence for the power of team cohesiveness to either support or resist change efforts. The Hawthorne studies and later social-psychological experiments demonstrated the importance of developing strong team cohesiveness and of getting the support of currently cohesive social entities in generating successful organizational change. One only has to observe the popularity and ubiquity of “team-building” events to recognize the importance of group cohesiveness and identification.





12.3.1.6 Bases of social power


Central to the Lewinian approach to change is the notion that there are many social as well as physical sources of power at play in organizations, particularly in organizational politics. French & Raven (1959) were among the first to identify the various sources of social power: reward, coercive, legitimate, referent, and expert. These authors pointed to sources that are often overlooked or taken for granted.





12.3.2 GST and change


Von Bertalanffy (1950) introduced GST at about the same time that Lewin (1951b) ­formulated his field theory. Since many of the basic tenets of field theory and GST are similar, it is only natural that followers of Lewin would embrace GST and use the theoretical rigor of GST to undergird their research and theory. Two basic similarities between field theory and GST stand out. First, both theoretical perspectives are holistic and concerned with the relationships between the relevant elements of the psychological field or system rather than focusing on only one or two variables at a time. Second, both approaches view the dynamic relationships between elements or variables at a given point in time rather than focusing on a linear chain of events among a small group of variables.

Just as Lewin had a multidisciplinary history, GST developed over several decades through a cross-disciplinary group of theorists including von Bertalanffy (1950), a biologist; Boulding (1960), an economist; Ashby (1958), a bacteriologist; J.C. Miller (1955), a psychiatrist; Rapoport (1956), a mathematician; and Emery & Trist (1960) and Katz & Kahn (1978), organizational theorists and psychologists.

GST does not provide a set of strategies for implementing organizational change. Instead, it provides the manual that explains how social and organizational systems work. GST presents the structural model that provides the insights necessary for OD practitioners to develop initial plans for change, which can be implemented and subsequently modified through an action-research process (see Figure 12.1). The common structure and characteristics of all open systems are presented in this subsection (following Ashby, 1958; Boulding, 1960; Miller, 1955; von Bertalanffy, 1950).





12.3.2.1 Importation, transformation, and exportation of energy


All open systems have input → throughput (energy transformation or “work”) → output energy cycles (Figure 12.2). Systems also have rich “feedback” links that help them regulate the amount of input and output and the form of the transformation process. This basic and familiar open-systems framework is easy to relate to standard manufacturing processes and provides an accessible and understandable framework to both practitioners and organizational clients.

Figure 12.2 The basic open-systems framework relating the input, throughput, output, and feedback links of an organization.





12.3.2.2 Systems as cycles of events


Typically, systems have a repetitive cycle of input → throughput → output (McFarland et al., 1984). Ford produces cars and trucks, Harvard produces graduates, and so on. The primary task of this cycle of events is to preserve and sustain the organization. Each system has a primary task that is critical for its survival. When an organizational system improperly identifies or ignores its primary task, it no longer finds customers for its output or products and runs the danger of becoming incapacitated or even dying. These cycles of events constitute the structure of the system (Allport, 1962).





12.3.2.3 Negative entropy


The universal law of entropy, also known as the second law of thermodynamics, states that all systems move towards disorganization, decay, and death. This process is reversed (negative entropy) while the system is alive and sustaining itself. To ensure that systems stay alive and thrive, constant importation of energy or the ability to store energy is required to carry them through lean energy periods.





12.3.2.4 Suprasystems and subsystems


Every system is embedded in a larger system (the suprasystem) and is composed of smaller systems (subsystems). We often refer to a system’s suprasystem as its environment or ecosystem. Subsystems are component parts of a system that are separated by boundaries and are internally consistent with regard to the quantity, quality, frequency, or phase of energy utilization. In organizations, these subsystems may be termed “departments,” “business units,” “project teams,” and so on.





12.3.2.5 Positive and negative feedback


Feedback is useful information with to manage or regulate a system. Positive feedback is a message to continue or even amplify current behavior. Negative feedback, on the other hand, is a message to diminish or even discontinue current behavior. Positive and negative feedback function very much like the thermostat in a house or a combustion engine.





12.3.2.6 The steady state of dynamic equilibrium


The cycle of energy conversion in an organizational system operates best or most efficiently when there is a relatively stable dynamic state. In other words, systems trend towards dynamic equilibrium if undisturbed by unexpected turbulence. Therefore, organizations tend to resist changes in energy dynamics and will only allow them if accomplishment of their primary task is threatened. This is one reason why periods of crisis represent such good opportunities for change.





12.3.2.7 Growth and expansion


Although an organization prefers stability, it also needs to grow in order to survive. One reason for the need to grow is instability in the energy supply; organizations learn that they must generate surpluses or resource reserves in order to buffer themselves in lean economic times. Growth can be accomplished through expansion of current production, diversification of production, or creation of monopolies. Each of these activities gives an organization more control over its environment and destiny.





12.3.2.8 Differentiation


Open systems develop through differentiation and elaboration. Start-up organizations have a very simple structure, with organizational members carrying out multiple roles. As organizations grow, roles become more structured and specialized, and additional subsystems (departments and business units) are created. This development allows for greater efficiency, which gives an organization greater survival capability. On the other hand, increased specialization diminishes the flexibility and adaptability of the organization.





12.3.2.9 Integration and coordination


Growth, expansion, and differentiation place great demands on an organizational system to integrate and coordinate its component parts. In organizational systems, integration and coordination serve different purposes (Katz & Kahn, 1978): integration ensures that organizational members share the same norms and values, while coordination ensures that tasks and roles mesh properly.





12.3.2.10 Equifinality


This principle states that a system can reach the same final state from differing initial conditions and by a variety of paths. Equifinality provides flexibility for the organizational system to be creative in inventing new, novel, and more-effective ways of accomplishing its primary task. This flexibility, however, is inhibited if its structure is too rigid or if it becomes overencumbered with policy and procedures.

Organizations, from a GST perspective, are very complicated places. They like stability but are constantly knocked off balance by unexpected or unknowable factors and events. There are great advantages to growth, diversification, and creation of monopolies, where they do not need to compete so hard. These processes, however, bring their own problems of integration, coordination, and complacency, which undermine flexibility, creativity, and the desire to change. Organizational systems try to stay in balance with a long-term perspective, but they do so at the risk of being unprepared for or ­unpracticed in dealing with shorter-term turbulence. GST can be described as a model of organizational systems close to, but never quite in, equilibrium. It can also be described as a linear systems model in which most events and behaviors are predictable most, but not all, of the time.





12.3.3 Bateson and Watzlawick: levels of change, paradox, and the problem of persistence


Gregory Bateson is best known for his double-bind theory for the maintenance, if not genesis, of schizophrenia (Bateson et al., 1956). In essence, Bateson and his colleagues hypothesized that the schizophrenic’s peculiar or crazy behavior can be explained by the existence of contradictory and paradoxical messages of the form, “Do A or I’ll punish you,” and simultaneously, “If you do A, you will get punished just the same.” Since the individual cannot do either without incurring punishment, he or she behaves in a new and novel way to escape the double-bind.

Bateson and his colleagues (Watzlawick et al., 1974) supported this theory in an ingenious way by referring to two 19th-century mathematical theories (Bateson, 1972). Using the theory of groups, these authors noted that a group comprises a collection of members with at least one common characteristic and their combinations. Take, for instance, the traditional method for telling time (i.e. 24 hours in the day). If you add 4 hours to 11 pm, the time is 3 am, a number which is part of the group. Furthermore, you can combine members of the group in any order and get the same result. Groups also contain an identity member, which when combined with another member returns that member. For instance, in groups whose rule of combination is additive, the identity member is 0 (e.g. 7 + 0 = 7). Finally, every group member has a reciprocal or opposite, so that the combination of any member with its opposite yields the identity member (e.g. 0). Using the rule of combination, 7 plus its opposite (−7) yields 0, the identity member.10

Watzlawick et al. (1974) used these principles to explain what the authors describe as first-order change: transformations in which the results closely resemble one of the ­members of the group. For example, applying a standard, familiar approach to a problem, you are likely to get a familiar solution, one that may or may not solve the problem. If nothing is done to solve the problem, nothing happens (the identity of the member is retained). Again, this outcome may or may not be beneficial to the problem owner. Trying to do the opposite of what is currently happening will frequently lead to no change at all, since the two behaviors cancel themselves out.

In an earlier treatment of this topic, Watzlawick et al. (1967) describe how “symmetrical” communications—similar but opposite interactions—result in behavioral stalemates. For example, if a boss is concerned that an employee is “slacking off” when not under his or her direct observation and increases surveillance, a predictable response is that the employee will resent the apparent lack of trust and become even more secretive about any activity that might not be seen as work-related. Watzlawick et al. (1967) note that ­symmetrical interactions tend to spiral to more extreme levels of behavior until the ­problem “comes to a head” in a result which is not to the benefit of either party.





12.3.3.1 The problem of persistence


Watzlawick et al. (1974) also use the theory of groups to deal with the problematic issue of problem or symptom persistence. Why is it, one may ask, that people, teams, and organizations continue to apply the same solutions when they keep getting the same results? Most readers will be familiar with the following quote: “Insanity is doing the same thing over and over again and expecting different results” (attributed to Einstein). The identity of a new “solution” that does not solve the original problem is referenced in the French proverb, “Plus ça change, plus c’est la même chose”; the more things change, the more they stay the same.

Watzlawick et al. (1974) reasoned that people in families, social systems, and organizations are trying to effect change but are using first-order change strategies that almost guarantee the problem will not be solved or that a new but familiar result will emerge that is as problematic as the problem itself. The familiar oscillation between efforts to centralize and decentralize operations in an organization is an example of a system caught in a first-order-change behavioral circle. Over-reliance on “best practices” also ensures that ­organizations will use solutions that worked well in the past but may not be appropriate for a new, unforeseen, and therefore disruptive situation.

First-order-change solutions are usually based upon conventional common sense and past experience, and have a reasonable chance of success if they were successful in the past and the presenting situation is sufficiently familiar and understood by the organization. The rub comes when new and unprecedented problems confront the organization for which no current acceptable solution exists (i.e. it is not part of the current set of solutions). In this situation, a transformational, or second-order, change strategy that transcends a given system or frame of reference is required.

In order to understand second-order change, Bateson (1972) and Watzlawick et al. (1974) refer to a second mathematical theory, the theory of logical types, proposed by Whitehead & Russell (1962). This creates a construction superordinate to a group class. While a class has members, as does a group, the theory of logical types specifies that in the case of classes, the collection of members is distinct from any one member; for example, mankind is the class of all people but is not represented by any individual human. One implication of this theory is that unprecedented problems require a “jump” in the conceptual frame from the familiar formulation to a higher level of ­conceptualization. For example, it has been amply demonstrated that running an individual business or family finances requires a different set of principles and ­strategies (e.g. microeconomics) from running a national or international economy (e.g. ­macroeconomics).

In recent years, this jump to a higher, or at least unique, level of conceptualization has been described as a “paradigm shift” (Kuhn, 1962). In order to address new and unprecedented situations and problems, managers and leaders are constantly being encouraged to “think outside the box.”11

The preceding discussion of first- and second-order change may remind some readers of Argyris’ description of single- and double-loop learning. Although the correspondence isn’t exact, there is a fair degree of overlap in the concepts. Like Bateson (1972) and Watzlawick et al. (1974), Argyris & Schön (1974) were concerned with the changes in traditional and conventional learning approaches required to solve complex, novel, and unprecedented problems. For these authors, single-loop learning focuses primarily upon discrepancies between expected and obtained outcomes (e.g. results). Organizations and systems can adjust behavior/performance in accordance with accurate feedback, much as a thermostat adjusts temperature to meet an expected or set level. This process necessarily involves first-order change, since there are no changes in the assumptions about how the system works and change efforts involve solutions that are part of the group of solutions that are already known (and therefore reside, conceptually, in the same class or level). Single-loop learning is fine in everyday situations where the operational principles are well known and incremental adjustments in behavior yield results that are predictably positive.

When conventional solutions no longer work, however, individuals and organizations need to include double-loop learning in bringing about change. In double-loop learning, consideration is given to governing variables, operating assumptions, goals, and values. While single-loop inquiry asks whether we are doing things right, double-loop inquiry asks whether we are doing the right things. Since asking these questions is in a different class to strictly operational issues and therefore is “meta” to single-loop questions, they are clearly in the category of Bateson (1972) and Watzlawick et al.’s (1974) second-­order change.





12.3.3.2 Strategies for achieving second-order change


Bateson (1972) and Watzlawick et al. (1974) agreed with Confucius that change and persistence cannot be considered in isolation; one needs to understand persistence in order to comprehend, much less bring about, change. This realization will lead the successful change agent to examine why people: (1) ignore the need to change; (2) are fearful of change; (3) keep applying failed solutions; and (4) vastly oversimplify a situation, the factors involved in a problem, and the necessary actions to solve a problem.

It is difficult, and in many cases impossible, to provide instructions for directly solving a problem requiring a second-order solution. After all, in most cases, conventional and common-sense solutions have already been tried and have failed. Furthermore, ­Watzlawick et al. (1974) reported that even effective second-order change agents frequently cannot easily identify what it was they did that brought about change. These change agents employ a number of strategies that set the stage for change and have great confidence that individuals and systems will make corrections or find solutions to problems, unconsciously if not consciously, in order to get out of the unconstructive, destructive, and self-defeating “doom loops” they find themselves in.

Here is a sample of some second-order change tactics:

(1) Frustrate the change—One tactic is to openly predict that the individual or client system cannot change; that it is powerless to change given all the obstacles and impediments that faces it. This strategy works on two principles: (1) people respond well to challenges, especially if others underestimate them; and (2) people reflexively react to instruction by moving in the opposite or a new direction (reverse psychology).

(2) Show appreciation for the fact that individuals and members are doing what they think is best for the client system—This strategy reflects the belief that individuals in the system are trying their best to make good decisions and believe they are taking appropriate action for the welfare and survival of the system. This principle is consistent with the appreciative-inquiry strategy (Cooperrider, 1999) and the positive-psychology approach (Snyder & Lopez, 2001) of focusing on strengths and positive aspirations rather than on deficiencies and dysfunctional behavior. In many cases, showing appreciation and respect for efforts that the client system is making to solve a problem minimizes defensiveness and allows the client system to explore other solutions which hold more promise. When debriefing problem-solving efforts, it is usually more effective to ask a team to reflect on what it did well than on how it failed or what it did poorly. With these efforts recognized and appreciated, the team can then be asked for areas in which it can improve even more (Marquardt et al., 2009).

(3) Ask more questions about what solutions have been tried, rather than trying to figure out why the situation is difficult to change—In many cases, the solution that is attempted is the problem. If one can suppress the urge to ask why something is happening and focus instead on what the system is trying to do to correct the problem, the resulting investigation will provide one with information about why the problem is persisting and how first-order change efforts might actually be perpetuating and supporting it. With this information, one may be able to formulate a second-order plan that has promise as a means of upsetting dysfunctional patterns of interaction.

(4) Reframe the situation—Reframing changes the “conceptual and/or emotional setting or viewpoint in relation to which a situation is experienced” and places “it in another frame which fits the ‘facts’ of the same concrete situation equally well or even better, and thereby changes its entire meaning.” During one of the many 19th-century riots in Paris, the commander of an army detachment was ordered to clear a city square by firing into the canaille (disorderly rabble). Instead, the commander ordered his troops to level their rifles at the crowd and commenced to bellow at the top of his lungs, “Mesdames, m’sieurs, I have orders to fire at the canaille. But as I see a great number of honest, respectable citizens before me, I request that they leave so that I can safely shoot the canaille” (Watzlawick et al., 1974, p. 81). The square emptied very quickly after this reframing of the situation by the commander. The facts on the ground had not changed, nor had the commander’s orders. By reframing the crowd as a mixture of law-abiding citizens and lawless rabble, however, the commander had altered the situation to the advantage of both the crowd and the long-term interests of the state.

(5) Create paradoxes that make it difficult for the client system to persist in its current dysfunctional behavior—Creating paradoxes to change behavior is an advanced tactic and is typically attempted when all other efforts fail. Paradoxical tactics seem risky because they often prescribe the symptom to the client. Some paradoxical instructions seem harmless enough—such as instructing an insomniac, at all costs, to stay awake as long as he or she can. Others may appear potentially counterproductive or even dangerous—such as confronting organizational leaders about why they want the organization to change when it is still profitable.





12.3.4 Chaos and complexity theories


As noted in Section 12.3.2, GST best describes organizational behavior in close-to-stable equilibrium states. It can also be described as a linear-systems model; that is, behavior is directly proportional to the sum of relevant inputs. Linear systems are generally expressed by simple input/output relationships and change tends to be easily regulated, orderly, and incremental. First-order-change efforts are generally effective in organizational systems that are behaving in accordance with linear-systems principles (i.e. as predicted by GST).

The GST model, however, is not as useful when dealing with organizational systems that are operating in environments that do not allow them to settle into comfortable ­patterns and cycles of dynamic equilibrium. When organizational systems are operating far from equilibrium, the environment becomes chaotic and demonstrates nonlinear features (Stacey, 1992; Stacey et al., 2000). In nonlinear systems, output responses are not directly proportional to inputs, since the system response is not a simple sum of systems inputs. As many readers are aware, very strange things happen in nonlinear, far-from-equilibrium, chaotic environments. Small events produce very large and unpredictable results (the so-called “butterfly” effect: Butz, 1997; Lorenz, 1963). Systems characterized by nonlinear dynamics (e.g. weather) are notoriously difficult and require enormous computing power to predict.

An adequate treatment of chaos and complexity theories is not possible in this review. Some of the principles related to these theories do have practical relevance to this discussion, however:

(1) It should be apparent to the reader, for instance, that first-order solutions are generally ineffective in nonlinear, chaotic environments. In fact, first-order solutions often make situations worse (Watzlawick et al., 1974).

(2) Double-loop learning (Argyris & Schön, 1974) is necessary if organizational systems are to operate effectively in chaotic environments. Since simple operating principles no longer work in chaotic environments, organizational members at all levels must be able and willing to examine governing principles, assumptions, goals, and values if they are to have any hope of dealing with any predictable surprises that emerge.

(3) The typical bureaucratic practices and policies that lead to predictability and stability become a liability when organizations need to be agile, creative, and innovative (Stacey, 1992). Since it is impossible to know what or who will be needed, even in the near future, organizations that rely on creativity and innovation (e.g. Apple or Google) purposely fuzz lines and levels of authority and power, and give people time off to “play” with ideas and concepts.

(4) Chaotic environments place a premium on the ability of organizations to quickly self-organize rather than implement a long-term plan. Organizational charts become very fluid and time horizons for strategic plans are shortened (Stacey et al., 2000).

(5) In chaotic and highly-complex environments, it is very hard to establish cause and effect (Stacey, 1992). By the time the organization fully understands what happened in the past, a new future is upon it. As Watzlawick et al. (1974) noted, a first-order analysis of what just happened—action and response—may be more useful than a comprehensive understanding of why it happened. An analysis of first-order cause and effect, combined with deft and rapid self-organization by management and employees, often carries the day in highly-chaotic environments.

(2) Systems dynamics in chaotic environments are highly sensitive to some changes but remarkably insensitive to others (Stacey, 1992). Moreover, it is devilishly difficult to predict which changes will result in huge versus minimal impact. Consequently, an implementation plan resembling the process represented in Figure 12.1 is usually preferable to strict adherence to a project plan in highly-chaotic and -unstable environments.

(3) Organizations in highly-unstable markets or markets that require high levels of ­creativity may develop practices and policies that discourage stability and encourage chaos (1992). High levels of creativity, novelty, and self-organization are required when organizations operate in the highly-dynamic and unpredictable border ­between order and chaos. “Silicon Valley,” outside of San Francisco, can be described as one such region where purposeful chaos can be useful.

(4) Complex and chaotic environments place a premium on the development of ­organizational learning capabilities. As Figure 12.1 demonstrates, organizations cannot expect that a simple, linear path to their goals exists. Organizational members at all levels must be able to develop a workable understanding of complex dynamics and invent new solutions to novel and unprecedented challenges.





12.3.5 Behavioral models of change


Behavioral models for behavior change have been around since the early to mid-20th century and many behavioral principles are so solidly embedded in organizational practices and policies that we hardly notice them. For instance, the extensive use of rewards/­incentives to shape desired behavior and punishments/sanctions to stop/extinguish undesirable behavior was inspired by the work of behaviorists such as Skinner (Ferster & Skinner, 1957). Likewise, classical Pavlovian principles (e.g. pairing a “neutral” object or event with an event that elicits a predictable response (pleasure, fear, desire) to obtain a “conditioned” response (Pavlov, 1927/1960)) are used in a variety of ways to elicit ­emotional reactions, attitudes, and involuntary behavioral responses.

Behaviorism is also associated with a focus on behavioral rather than internal mental operations in order to understand behavior or bring about change (Watson, 1930). In contrast to psychoanalytic and Gestalt psychology, early behaviorists displayed little ­interest in mental thoughts, images, emotion, attitudes, and so on as antecedents to change. Behavioral change or behavior modification could be effected by identifying a behavioral goal and applying behavioral-change principles such as the use of rewards and punishment to shape and strengthen the desired behavioral goal (Martin & Pear, 2007).

In recent years, there has been an integration of cognitive/mental and behavioral-change models to bring about specific behavioral goals (Rachman, 1997). An example of this integrative approach is the transtheoretical model (TTM) for treating habitual or addictive behaviors, traditionally considered some of the most difficult to change (­Prochaska & DiClemente, 1994). Prochaska & DiClemente (1994) have identified the following stages in the change process for these types of behavior: precontemplation, ­contemplation, preparation, action, and maintenance. The TTM approach provides cognitive and behavioral learning activities to address the known obstacles to behavioral change. Chapter 17 provides research data on and discussion of the application of these cognitive/behavioral principles to organizational systems change.

While change models such as TTM show promise, it remains to be demonstrated that these methods can be useful in large-scale systems change initiatives. Cognitive/behavioral methods are best used in first-order-change environments where change agents have a good understanding of the cognitive conditions and behavioral reinforcers which maintain undesirable behaviors and need to be changed in order to bring about the desired ones; they are generally not suitable for unpredictable and unstable environments that demonstrate nonlinear systems effects and require second-order change strategies.





12.3.6 Psychoanalytic approaches to change


While psychoanalysis has primarily been focused on personal change, a number of authors have provided a psychoanalytic treatment of organizational life (Diamond, 1993; Kets de Vries & Miller, 1984). These accounts provide a detailed analysis of the inner life of key leaders in organizations and how intrapsychic and interpersonal difficulties (i.e. neuroses and character orders) result in dysfunctional and self-defeating organizational behavior. While these accounts mix in some organizational-change concepts in the discussion, no organizational-change model is offered in addition to the traditional change model provided by psychoanalytic-inspired treatment models. That is, change interventions consist primarily of individual consultation with key leaders and their teams, in which insight and confrontational interpretations of organizational behavior are offered.

There is a very limited psychoanalytic literature related to organizational systems change. While intensive psychoanalytic interventions may result in second-order change and significant improvement in the functioning and behavior of key executives, it is difficult to see how this approach can be “scaled-up” to effect large-scale organizational change. Moreover, psychoanalytically-oriented change interventions are inevitably focused on dysfunctional behavior and thereby provoke resistance and attack. We see these methods as having value and usefulness when the focus is on improving the functioning and decision-making of key executives. In fact, most of the psychoanalytically-oriented literature on change has been focused on the effectiveness and process of executive coaching (­Diamond, 1993; Kets de Vries & Miller, 1984; Kilburg, 2000; Levenson, 2006).





12.3.7 Neuroscience and change


Recent advances in neuroscience provide us with a better understanding of the person in Lewin’s expression of the relationship between behavior (B), the person (P), and the ­environment (E) at any given time: B = ƒ(P,E). With the exception of psychoanalytic approaches, most change theories assume that people make more or less rational decisions as either change agents or as the objects of change. Emotional responses such as fear are assumed to be rational responses to the dangers involved in change. Furthermore, people are expected to make rational decisions based upon the expectation that a certain response will result in the largest benefit in relation to the costs involved.

Economic models in the latter part of the 20th century assumed a perfectly rational marketplace which, almost mysteriously, factored in all of the relevant variables in establishing prices and making economic decisions (e.g. the efficient market hypothesis: Fama, 1965). Counterarguments that economic decisions were not always made on the basis of cool-headed rational analysis (individually or collectively) were strengthened by analyses of the emotionally-exaggerated decisions of investors in the run-up “bubble” of 2004–2006 and the ensuing panic-selling of late 2008 (Fox, 2009).

Early theories of why people fail to maximize their self-interest in many situations—as Adam Smith (1776/2003) predicted they will—pointed to the archaic functioning of the brain’s limbic system (see Bernstein & Rosen, 1990): primitive emotions (fear, rage, greed, lust, etc.) controlled by neural structures in the limbic system overwhelm the more reasonable and rational neocortex, leading to actions that may have some value in terms of short-term protection and gratification but in the longer term are dysfunctional.

These arguments, however, were less persuasive when neuroscience discovered that there were much more complex relationships between various limbic structures and cortical structures, specifically the prefrontal cortex (Damasio, 1994, 1999). Damasio’s research indicated that limbic structures play an intermediate role between perceptual organs and the brain in “marking” input that is of potential harm or benefit to the individual. This information is then passed through a rich neural network to the prefrontal cortex for further processing and decision-making. The results of this neural processing are then sent back through the limbic structures to produce muscular/motoric action.

Effective behavior requires successful integration of both the limbic system and the prefrontal cortex. The prefrontal cortex has been described as being responsible for “executive” functioning and is the last area of the brain to mature, often in a person’s 20s. Wilson (1998) notes that “without the stimulus and guidance of emotion, rational thought slows and disintegrates” (p. 113). Pinker (1997) commented further on the connections between the archaic “dinosaur” brain of the limbic system and the more recently developed prefrontal-cortical structures: “Intelligence is the pursuit of goals in the face of obstacles … emotions are mechanisms that set the brain’s highest-level goals … emotion triggers the cascade of subgoals and sub-subgoals that we call thinking and acting” (pp. 372–373).

The recently-acquired understanding of neural functioning has been applied to change in several ways. Rock (2009) has provided a synthesis of all brain functioning (all paleo- and neocortical structures) to provide insight into the impact of neural processes on behavior. The expressed purpose of these accounts is to help everyone, no matter their position or situation, understand their own reactions and behaviors, as well as those of people that they come into contact with or deal with, helping them to become more successful and productive as leaders, team members, and employees. This information has broad usefulness in the discussion of change and personal coaching (Rock & Page, 2009), but is not structured sufficiently to provide specific guidance for larger-scale change efforts.

Lawrence & Nohria (2002) and Lawrence (2010) have taken a more focused approach to the new brain research, examining the relationship between limbic and prefrontal-­cortex structures to posit a small group of primary motives that must be attended to if change agents are to capture the “hearts and minds” of those who must implement or will be the objects of an intended change. Earlier in his career, Lawrence had become well-known for his analytic/rational approach to organizational differentiation and integration (Lawrence & Lorsch, 1969). His most recent research represents a more balanced treatment of analytic/rational and emotional factors involved in ­organizational behavior.

This research also integrates the emerging work of evolutionary psychology (Buss, 1999; Pinker, 1994) with the clinical findings of neuropsychology, some of which have already been described (Damasio, 1999). Using a neo-Darwinian argument, Lawrence & Nohria (2002) and Lawrence (2010) argue that the process of genetic variation, selection for survival, and retention through successful breeding accounts for a group of four ­primary drives/motives that are innately determined and operationalized through the limbic/prefrontal-cortex system: (1) acquisition, (2) bonding, (3) learning, and (4) defending.12 Lawrence’s work should be a reminder to anyone contemplating or planning change to take into consideration basic and innate human needs.





12.4 Conclusion


After completing this extensive review of the literature relevant to organizational change, the reader may have come to appreciate the power and usefulness of Lewin’s model not only for understanding but for bringing about organizational change. Not only does the B = ƒ(P,E) expression contain all the forces necessary for understanding and planning organizational change, but the requirement that this be a “here-and now,” contemporary rather than historical analysis provides the basis for action rather than passive, “hands-off” analysis. This is not to say that an understanding of the past is not useful, merely that this information must be translated into a “here-and-now” formulation that can be used as the basis for experimental action. Lewin’s model, therefore, promotes a forward-looking approach to organizational change: (1) Based upon what we know now about the system, what is our best plan for going forward? (2) Based on the initial results of this plan, what is working, what can be improved, and what do we want to change? (3) Based on further experience with our revised plan, how do we need to change our initial formulation of the problem? (4) Based on the final results of the plan, how do we want to change our thinking about the problem and how do we want to change our goals and objectives? (5) based upon the analysis in (4), do we want to pursue these new goals and objectives?

Each of the schools of thought and approaches discussed in this chapter can be useful at one point or another in the problem formulation/solution cycle. GST (von Bertalanffy, 1950) provides a very useful model of organizational systems in an environment that has enough predictability and stability to allow for conventional thinking and first-order change. Where organizations face highly-unstable, chaotic, and explosive environments, as well as unprecedented challenges and threats, however, the principles and strategies suggested by Bateson (1972), Watzlawick et al. (1974), and Stacey (1992) are very useful in fostering creativity and bringing about second-order change.

Psychoanalytically-inspired change strategies (Diamond, 1993; Kets de Vries & Miller, 1984) can be very helpful in allowing individuals, especially leaders, to gain a deeper understanding of the personal and organizational dynamics that disrupt and inhibit effective functioning. With this information, organizational leaders can apply Lewin’s useful change cycle to “unfreeze,” change, and “refreeze” performance levels. The new knowledge being obtained in the rapidly-advancing field of neuroscience (Lawrence, 2010; Lawrence & Nohria, 2002) can be useful in developing organi­zational-change ­strategies that take into account the basic human drives that motivate human behavior.

The principles and strategies of change presented in this chapter provide the ­foundations for many of the topics presented in the companion chapters in this volume. These ­principles and strategies undergird most of the methods we refer to as “organizational change,” “change management,” and “leadership”—companion volumes in this series of ­handbooks. While our understanding of the process will undoubtedly increase in the future, many of the principles and strategies described in this chapter are, in fact, ­timeless.





Notes


1 Wilhelm (1960) speculates that the origins of the I Ching go back much further: Fu Hsi (c. 2800 BC) devised the first symbols, and the first of the classic hexagrams emerged in the Hsia dynasty (2205–1766 BC).

2 This is actually an amalgam of different thoughts attributed to fragments of Heraclitus’ writings on the subject of “universal flux” (Wheelwright, 1959, p. 29): (1) everything flows and nothing abides; everything gives way and nothing stays fixed; and (2) you cannot step twice into the same river, for other waters are continually flowing on.

3 The proposition of voluntary change introduces the thorny issue of free will and choice. From a ­psychological/philosophical standpoint, it can be argued that all change is dictated by either an existing condition (the nature or DNA of the organization) or a reaction to external events. In either case, it can be questioned whether the organization is really making a voluntary choice based upon free will. This is not the place for a more in-depth discussion of this issue, but ­cultural assumptions about free will and choice have significant and profound consequences for the way decisions are made within organizations and systems.

4 The quasistationary equilibrium state described by Lewin (1947) is analogous to the punctuated-­equilibrium model described by Tushman & Romanelli (1985).

5 This approach has particular strength within professional management circles, with the Strategic ­Management Society having over 2600 members in 2011.

6 While the influence of North American and European theory and practice is being challenged in some parts of the world, notably Asia, “Western” approaches are still highly influential and are imitated across the globe.

7 Lewin was a student of Carl Stumpf, an early philosopher/psychologist who had a strong influence on the views of leading psychologists of the Gestalt school, such as Max Wertheimer, Wolfgang Köhler, and Kurt Koffka (Boring, 1950).

8 Lewin (1943) further argued and provided evidence that, as a general rule, reducing restraining forces was more effective than increasing driving forces in changing behavior in situations where individuals experienced feelings of threat related to the desired change.

9 There is a long history of field research in disciplines such as cultural anthropology (Burgess, 1984) and sociology (Durkheim, 1895; Nisbet, 1967). In psychology, however, there are few examples before Lewin. The current enthusiasm for qualitative research (Patton, 2002) can be traced back to Lewin.

10 This is a very brief treatment of Bateson and Watzlawick’s discussion of the theory of groups in relation to change. Readers are encouraged to read Watzlawick et al. (1974), pp. 2–5, for a much more in-depth treatment of the subject.

11 This term, apparently, is a direct reference to the familiar nine-dot puzzle “box,” which requires new ways of thinking to solve. The puzzle requires you to connect all nine dots in the box with only four lines (Loyd, 1914).



Another example was observed by the author when his local 76-year-old contractor was ­informed by a neighbor that the roof elevation of his addition to our summer cottage exceeded the local ordinance by 6 inches. The contractor thought about the problem for a few moments and then came up with a very practical solution that was inexpensive and simple and certainly not conventional. Instead of lowering the roofline by reducing the frame of the roof, he simply ordered a load of dirt to be dumped around the foundation of the cottage where the elevation exceeded the standard.

12 Earlier, Freud (1961), on the basis of his clinical work, had posited that “The communal life of human beings had, therefore, a two-fold foundation: the compulsion to work, which was created by external necessity, and the power of love” (p. 48). Lawrence’s list of innate drives can also be compared with Maslow’s (1954) hierarchy of needs, which have gained almost universal currency in explaining ­human motivation. Lawrence assumes that activation of these four drives in coordination with an effective prefrontal-cortical response will ensure the best fit of the individual with the environment, resulting in successful competition of their genes with the genes of others in the propagation of the species. Both Freud’s and Maslow’s observations and theories can be accounted for using Lawrence’s four-drive ­theory. Some might argue that Maslow’s highest-level need, self-actualization, is superordinate, and therefore separate, from the practical need to learn in the pursuit of successful adaptation to the ­environment. The fact that Maslow found so few individuals who were truly self-actualized provides a counter—perhaps cynical—argument for the differentiation of Maslow’s need for self-actualization and Lawrence’s drive to learn.





References


Allport, F. (1962). A structuronomic conception of behavior: individual and collective. Journal of Abnormal and Social Psychology, 64, 3–30.

Asch, S.E. (1951). Effects of group pressure upon the modification and distortion of judgment. In H. Guetzkow, editor. Groups, Leadership and Men. Pittsburgh, PA: Carnegie Press

Argyris, C. (1970). Intervention Theory and Method. Reading MA: Addison-Wesley.

Argyris, C. & Schön, D. (1974). Theory in Practice: Increasing Professional Effectiveness. San Francisco, CA: Jossey-Bass.

Ashby, W. (1958). General systems theory as a new discipline. General Systems Yearbook, 3, 1–6.

Bateson, G. (1972). Steps to the Ecology of Mind. New York: Ballantine Books.

Bateson, G., Jackson, D.D., Haley, J., & Weakland, J. (1956). Toward a theory of schizophrenia. Behavioral Science, 1, 251–264.

Bennis, W.G. (1965). Theory and method in applying behavior science to planned organizational change. The Journal of Applied Behavioral Science, 1(4), 337–359.

Bennis, W.G., Benne, K.D., & Chin, R., editors.(1969). The Planning of Change. New York: Holt, Rinehart and Winston.

Benson, J.K. (1977). Organizations: a dialectic view. Administrative Science Quarterly, 22, 1–21.

Bernstein, A.J. & Rosen, S.C. (1990). Dinosaur Brains. New York: Ballantine Books.

Blake, R. & Mouton, J. (1964). The Managerial Grid: The Key to Leadership Excellence. Houston: Gulf Publishing Co.

Bradford, L.P. (1967). Biography of an institution. Journal of Applied Behavioral Science, 3, 127–143.

Boring, E.G. (1950). A History of Experimental Psychology, 2nd edition. Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice-Hall.

Boulding, K. (1960). Towards a general theory as a new discipline. General Systems Yearbook, 5, 66–75.

Burgess, R.G. (1984). In the Field: An Introduction to Field Research. Hemel Hempstead, UK: George Allen & Unwin.

Buss, D. (1999). Evolutionary Psychology: The New Science of the Mind. Boston: Allyn & Bacon.

Butz, M.R. (1997). Chaos and Complexity: Implications for Psychological Theory and Practice. New York: Taylor & Francis.

Cartwright, D. & Zander, A., editors.(1968). Group Dynamics: Research and Theory, 3rd edition. New York: Harper & Row.

Child, J. (1972). Organization, structure, environment and performance: the role of strategic choice. Sociology, 6(1), 1–22.

Child, J. (1997). Strategic choice in the analysis of action, structure, organizations and environment: retrospective and prospect. Organization Studies, 18(1), 43–76.

Cooperrider, D. (1999). Appreciative Inquiry: Rethinking Human Organization Toward a Positive Theory of Change. Champaign, IL: Stipes Publishing.

Cummings, T.G. & Worley, C.G. (2008). Organization Development and Change. Mason, OH: South-Western Cengage Learning.

Damasio, A. (1994). Decartes’ Error: Emotion, Reason, and the Human Brain. New York: Putnam.

Damasio, A. (1999). The Feeling of What Happens: Body and Emotion in the Making of Consciousness. New York: Harcourt Brace.

Darwin, C. (1859). On the Origin of Species by Means of Natural Selection, or the Preservation of Favoured Races in the Struggle for Life, 1st edition. London: John Murray.

Davenport, T. (1995). The fad that forgot people. Fast Company, 1(October), 70–75.

De Greene, K.B. (1973). Sociotechnical Systems: Factors in Analysis, Design, and Management. Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice-Hall.

Demers, C. (2007). Organizational Change Theories. London: Sage Publications

Diamond, M.A. (1993). The Unconscious Life of Organizations: Interpreting Organizational Identity. Westport, CT: Quorum Books

Donaldson, L. (1996). The normal science of structural contingency theory. In S. Clegg, C. Hardy, & W. Nord, editors. Handbook of Organizational Studies. London: Sage. pp. 57–76.

Emanuel, R. (2009). A 40-year wish list. Wall Street Journal. January 28, p. A14.

Emery, R. & Trist, E. (1960). Socio-technical systems. In C.W. Churchman & M. Verhurst, editors. Management Science Models and Techniques, vol. 2. London: Pergamon.

Emery, F. & Trist, E. (1965). The causal texture of organizational environments. Human Relations, 18, 21–32.

Fama, E. (1965). The behavior of stock market prices. Journal of Business, 38, 34–105.

Festinger, L. (1954). A theory of social comparison processes. Human Relations, 7(2), 117–140.

Festinger, L. (1957). A Theory of Cognitive Dissonance. Stanford, CA: Stanford University Press.

Fox, J. (2009). Myth of the Rational Market. New York: Harper Business.

Freedman, A.M. (2006). Action research: origins and application for OD&C practitioners. In B.B. Jones & M. Brazzel, editors. The NTL Handbook of Organization Development and Change. San Francisco: Jossey-Bass/NTL Institute.

Freeman, R.E. (1984). Strategic Management: A Stakeholder Approach. Boston: Pitman.

French, W.L. & Bell, C. (1973). Organization Development: Behavioral Science Interventions for Organization Improvement. Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice-Hall.

French, J. & Raven, B. (1968). The bases of social power. In D. Cartwright & A. Zander, editors. Group Dynamics: Research and Theory. New York: Harper & Row. pp. 259–269.

Freud, S. (1930/2005). Civilization and its Discontents (trans. J. Strachey). New York: W.W. Norton.

Freud, S. (1961). Civilization and Its Discontents (trans. James Strachey). New York: Norton.

Gersick, C. (1991). Revolutionary change theories: a multilevel exploration of the punctuated equilibrium paradigm. Academy of Management Review, 16(1), 10–36.

Golembiewski, R.T. (1972). Renewing Organizations: The Laboratory Approach to Planned Change. Itasca, IL: F.E. Peacock Publications.

Greenwood, D.J. & Levin, M. (1998). Introduction to action research: social research for social change. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage Publications.

Hamel, G., Prahalad, C.K., Thomas, H., & O’Neal, D., editors. (1999). Strategic Flexibility: Managing in a Turbulent Environment. New York: John Wiley & Sons.

Hannan, M.T. & Freeman, J.H. (1984). Structural inertia and organizational change. American Sociological Review, 49, 149–164.

Hedberg, B., Nystrom, P., & Starbuck, W. (1976). Camping on seesaws: prescriptions for a self-designing organization. Administrative Science Quarterly, 21(1), 41–65.

Kantor, R.M. (1983). The Change Masters. New York: Simon & Schuster.

Katz, D. & Kahn, R.L. (1952). Some recent findings in human relations research in industry. In G.W. Swanson, T.M. Newcomb, & E.L. Hartley, editors. Readings in Social Psychology, 2nd edition. New York: Holt. pp. 650–665.

Katz, D. & Kahn, R.L. (1978). The Social Psychology of Organizations. New York: John Wiley & Sons.

Kets de Vries, M.F.R. & Miller, D. (1984). The Neurotic Organization. San Francisco: Jossey-Bass.

Kilburg, R.R. (2000). Executive Coaching: Developing Wisdom in a World of Chaos. Washington, DC: American Psychological Association.

Kolb, D. (1984). Experiential Learning: Experience as the Source of Learning and Development. Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice Hall.

Kotter, J.P. (1996). Leading Change. Cambridge, MA: Harvard Business Press.

Kuhn, T.S. (1962). The Structure of Scientific Revolutions. Chicago, IL: University of Chicago Press.

Lawrence, P.R. (2010). Driven to Lead: Good, Bad, and Misguided Leadership. San Francisco: Jossey-Bass.

Lawrence, P.R. & Lorsch, J.W. (1969), Organization and Environment: Managing Differentiation and Integration. Homewood, IL: Richard D. Irwin.

Lawrence, P.R. & Nohria, N. (2002). Driven: How Human Nature Shapes our Choices. San Francisco: Jossey-Bass.

Levenson, H. (2006). Harry Levenson on the Psychology of Leadership. Cambridge, MA: Harvard Business Press.

Lewin, K.Z. (1943). Defining the “Field at a Given Time.” Psychological Review, 50, 292–310.

Lewin, K.Z. (1946). Action Research and Minority Problems. Journal of Social Issues, 2(4), 34–46.

Lewin, K.Z. (1947a). Group decision and social change. In T.M. Newcomb & E.L. Hartley, editors. Readings in Social Psychology. New York: Henry Holt and Co. pp. 340–344.

Lewin, K.Z. (1947b). Frontiers in group dynamics. In D. Cartwright, editor. (1951). Field Theory in Social Science: Selected Papers by Kurt Lewin. Chicago, IL: The University of Chicago Press.

Lewin, K.Z. (1951a). Field Research in Social Science: Selected Theoretical Papers. D. Cartwright, editor. New York: Harper & Row.

Lewin, K.Z. (1951b). Field Theory in Social Science. New York: Harper.

Lewin, K.Z. (1958). Group Decision and Social Change. New York: Holt, Rinehart and Winston.

Likert, R. (1967). The Human Organization: Its Management and Value. New York: McGraw-Hill.

Lines, R. (2004). The influence of participation in strategic change: resistance, organizational ­commitment and change goal achievement. Journal of Change Management, 4(3), 193–215.

Lorenz, E.N. (1963). Deterministic non-periodic flow. Journal of Atmospheric Sciences, 20, 130–141.

Loyd, S. (1914/2007). Sam Loyd’s Cyclopedia of 5000 Puzzles, Tricks, and Conundrums with Answers. Ishi Press.

Marrow, A.J. (1967). Events leading to the establishment of the national training laboratories. Journal of Applied Behavioral Science, 3, 145–150.

Marrow, A.J. (1972). The Practical Theorist: The Life and Work of Kurt Lewin. New York: Basic Books.

Maslow, A.H. (1954). Motivation and Personality. New York: HarperCollins.

Mayo, E. (1949). Hawthorne and the Western Electric Company: The Social Problems of an Industrial Civilisation. Oxford: Routledge Books.

McFarland, G.K., Leonard, H.S., and Morris, M.M. (1984). Nursing Leadership and Management: Contemporary Strategies. New York: John Wiley & Sons.

McLean, G.N. (2005). Organization Development: Principles, Processes, Performance. San Francisco: Barrett-Koehler Publishers.

Miller, D. & Friesen, P. (1984). Organizations: A Quantum View. Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice Hall.

Miller, J. (1955). Toward a general theory for the behavioral sciences. American Psychologist, 10, 513–531.

Nisbet, R.A. (1967). The Sociological Tradition. London: Heinemann Educational Books.

Oliver, C. (1991). Strategic responses to institutional processes. Academy of Management Review, 16(1), 145–179.

Patton, M.Q. (2002). Qualitative Research & Evaluation Methods, 3rd edition. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage.

Pfeffer, J. & Salancik, G.R. (1978). The External Control of Organizations: A Resource Dependence Perspective. New York: Harper and Row.

Penrose, E. (1952). Biological analogies in the theory of the firm. American Economic Review, 42, 804–819.

Pinker, S. (1997). How the Mind Works. New York: Norton.

Prochaska, J.O. & DiClemente, C.C. (1994). The Transtheoretical Approach: Crossing Traditional Boundaries of Therapy. Malabar, FL: Krieger.

Quinn, J.G. (1980). Managing strategic change. Sloan Management Review, 22(4), 3–20.

Rapoport, A. (1956). The diffusion problem in mass behavior. General Systems Yearbook, 1, 6.

Rock, D. (2009). Your brain at work: strategies for overcoming distraction, regaining focus, and working smarter all day long. New York: Harper Business.

Rock, D. & Page, L.J. (2009). Coaching with the Brain in Mind: Foundations for Practice. New York: John Wiley & Sons.

Rotman, J. (1994). An Introduction to the Theory of Groups. New York: Springer-Verlag.

Schacter, S., Ellertson, N., McBride, D., & Gregory, D. (1951). An experimental study of ­cohesiveness and productivity. Human Relations, 4, 229–238.

Schaffer, R.H. & Thompson, H.A. (1992). Successful change programs begin with results. Harvard Business Review, 70(1), 80–89.

Schumpeter, J.A. (1942/1975). Capitalism, Socialism and Democracy. New York: Harper and Row.

Sherer, P. & Lee, K. (2002). Institutional change in large law firms: a resource dependency and ­institutional perspective. Academy of Management Journal, 45(1), 102–119.

Smith, A. (1776/2003). The Wealth of Nations. New York: Bantam Classics.

Snyder, C.R. & Lopez, S.J. (2001). Handbook of Positive Psychology. Oxford, UK: Oxford University Press.

Spector, B. & Beer, M. (1994). Beyond TQM programmes. Journal of Organizational Change Management, 7, 63–70.

Stacey, R.D. (1992). Managing the Unknowable: Strategic Boundaries between Order and Chaos in Organizations. San Francisco: Jossey-Bass.

Stacey, R.D., Griffin, D., & Shaw, P. (2000). Complexity and Management: Fad or Radical Challenge to Systems Thinking? London: Routledge.

Starbuck, W. (1971). Organizational Growth and Development. Harmondsworth, UK: Blackwell.

Thompson, J.D. (1967). Organizations in Action. New York: McGraw-Hill.

Tushman, M.L. & Romanelli, E. (1985). Organizational evolution: a metamorphosis model of ­convergence and reorientation. In L. Cummings & B. Staw, editors. Research in organizational behavior, vol. 7. Greenwich, CT: JAI Press. pp. 171–222.

Vaill, P. (1996). Learning as a Way of Being: Strategies for Survival in a World of Permanent White Water. San Francisco: Jossey-Bass.

Van de Van, A. & Poole, M.S. (1995). Explaining development and change in organizations. Academy of Management Review, 20(3), 510–540.

von Bertalanffy, L. (1950). The theory of open systems in physics and biology. Science, 111, 23–28.

von Bertalanffy, L. (1969). General System Theory. New York: George Braziller.

Watzlawick, P., Beavin, J.H., & Jackson, D.D. (1967). Pragmatics of Human Communication: A Study of Interactional Patterns, Pathologies, and Paradoxes. New York: W.W. Norton & Co.

Watzlawick, P., Weakland, J.H., & Fisch, R. (1974). Change: Principles of Problem Formation and Problem Resolution. New York: W.W. Norton & Co.

Wheelwright, P. (1959). Heraclitus. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press.

Whitehead, A.N. & Russell, B. (1962). Principia Mathematica, 2nd edition. London: Cambridge University Press.

Wilhelm, H. (1960). Change: Eight Lectures on the I Ching (trans. C.F. Baynes). New York: Harper Torchbooks.

Wilson, E.O. (1998). Consilience: The Unity of Knowledge. New York: Knopf.





13


Positive Psychology and Appreciative Inquiry: The Contribution of the Literature to an Understanding of the Nature and Process of Change in Organizations


Stefan P. Cantore and David L. Cooperrider





13.1 Setting the Scene


The development of theory and practice in organizational change is a fast-moving arena in which previous truisms about the nature of organizations and the way they change are being challenged. A well-known example of this is the steady replacement of the century-long dominance of the “organization-as-machine” metaphor, fostered by Fredrick Taylor, among others, in his seminal work The Principles of Scientific Management, with talk of organizations as living human systems (Lewis et al., 2008; Taylor, 1911). Arguably this shift reflects a movement from modernity, where rationality, structure, control, and ­division of labor dominate ideas about organizations, to postmodernity in a post-industrial society, where the capacity to create and manipulate knowledge define an organization’s success or otherwise (Harvey, 1989; Touraine, 1974).

In the latter part of the 19th and for the majority of the 20th, a “modern” or “rational” approach to organizational change can be said to have dominated Western managerial thinking and practice. Some sociologists attribute this approach, in part, to the transition from community self-organizing in pre-industial times to a more formalized, structured, and therefore divided society in the industrial age (Tönnies, 1887). Traditional change efforts, invariably “top-down” in an industrial context, focused on organizational structure, managerial and worker status, differential power between roles, careful delineation of individual responsibilities, and the implementation of new policies and procedures. The aim, to a large extent, was to try and solve apparent problems manifesting themselves in what appeared to be clearly defined and therefore apparently manageable entities called “organizations.”

In recent decades, postmodernity has had an influence. For our purposes, we simply regard postmodernity as an expression that denotes a break from the industrial age. In the case of organizational change, it is a break with the school of thought that can broadly be said to have adopted the metaphor of a machine to represent the organization (or ­separate entity), compared with the more recent metaphor of the organization as a living, socially-constructed human system in which we all participate (Lewis et al., 2008).

So, in contrast to a modernist perspective, with its focus on a rational, ordered, and classically “top-down” approach to organizational change, a postmodern take is likely to include the following assumptions:

There is no one right way of doing things in organizing human activity.

Differences between perspectives and ways of doing things are inevitable and welcome.

There is no definitive history of any organization. All history is composed of stories we tell each other to make sense of our experience of the world.

We construct our selves through a multiplicity of stories told by us and by others.

Knowledge—and organizational change—is created through conversations between us all, regardless of our formal organizational roles or statuses.

Organizational “problems” are a series of beliefs/ideas/feelings people have developed about their experience of being involved with a construct called an “organization.”



A postmodernist perspective is also likely to see the organization as a socially-constructed, ever-changing space that enables human meaning-making in a work context (Weick, 1979). Therefore, rather than a clearly defined “object,” an organization looks and feels like a continually changing set of sometimes ill-defined processes. It is thus no longer ­possible to attribute to an organization a typical modernist “Grand Narrative,” setting out its purpose and steady course through an organizational-change process. Instead, the “here-and-now” perceptions of its members as they co-create and experience change become its multiple and ever-changing story (Lyotard, 1984).

At its most provocative, this perspective no longer necessarily considers an organization as a distinct seperate entity, but rather sees it as people organizing together in ­continually changing patterns of relationships and realities. This may appear a fine distinction but, in our view, it has the effect of redefining the whole modernist notion of “organizational change,” with significant ramifications for the practice of organizational-change ­specialists.

We have also witnessed, in recent decades, a growing interest in systems theory among the majority of organizational-change theorists. The focus is predominantly on an “open systems” perspective, with its underpinning belief that an effective and responsive ­interaction with its external environment is vital to an organization’s continuing success (Amagoh, 2008).

Applying complexity theory to organizational development1 (OD) is yet another area that has recently been of interest to change specialists. This draws upon mathematical modeling, evolutionary biology, and systems theory to answer the question, “How does order emerge?” This theory offers some helpful insights in times of chaos or turbulence in complex systems, when it is not possible to percieve a linear pathway through a change process and it is difficult to determine cause and effect.

One construct emanating from this set of theories is the notion of the complex adaptive system, which, when applied to organizational-change theory, sees an organization becoming “what emerges from the relationships of its members rather than being determined by the choices of individuals” (Stacey et al., 2000 p.123). This leads to: (1) a set of beliefs about how change happens in organizations, with a focus on changing patterns of human relationships; (2) the expectation of both stability and instablity at different points in the process; and (3) the recognition of the importance of continous learning and the need for a willingness to change ways of thinking about how organizations work and develop.

So far we have described some recent developments in our understanding of the nature of organizational change. However, behind the scenes there are some game-changing practices and insights that are only just beginning to gain significant attention from ­practitioners and academics. One of these is appreciative inquiry (AI) and its associated dialogic processes. Bushe & Marshak (2009), in a landmark award-winning article, talk about “a bifurcation in the practice of [OD] that is not fully acknowledged or discussed in OD textbooks or journal articles. Forms of OD practice exist that do not adhere to key assumptions and prescriptions of the founders of OD” (p. 348).

These authors go on to compare and contrast diagnostic OD with dialogic OD. ­Diagnostic OD assumes the existence of an objective reality that can be researched to produce valid data supporting change. Dialogic OD, on the other hand, emphasizes a view of human systems as dialogic systems (Boje & Al Arkoubi, 2005) or meaning-making systems (Bushe, 2009), rather than as biological or open systems.

It may not yet be fully visible or acknowledged, but organizational-change theory and practice is itself subject to significant change. This is reflected in how some organizational-change consultants now understand themselves and their role. For example, one of the authors, when working in an OD capacity with an organization, usually refers to himself as a “Conversational Consultant,” offering to host conversations that matter to the organization or system. The practice of a dialogic-oriented OD consultant will focus more towards creating a “container within which people can safely create new meaning in real-time rather than spending much time, if any, on facilitating project groups undertaking data collection (Bushe & Marshak, 2009; Lewis et al., 2008).

Organizational-change theory has not been the only domain to witness rapid development. Something similar has been occuring in the field of psychology, with a growing body of research literature connecting neuroscience with behavioral and cognitive psychology, such as links between the functioning of certain areas of the brain and how people self-evaluate (Beer & Hughes, 2010). Cacioppo and colleagues (2000) have explored the neurophysiology of emotions, identifying connections between our bodies, brains, and emotional responses, while Rugg & Yonelinas (2003) provide insight into the way the brain works to help us recognize other people. This research is just the tip of a growing iceberg of knowledge that is shaping the practice of psychology across all of its specialisms, including positive psychology (PP).

It is difficult to understate the scale of the revolution that is underway. While we will concentrate on AI and PP, we ask the reader to bear in mind that they are both inextricably connected to a much broader range of developments in organizational change and ­psychology theory.

In this chapter we will explore the theoretical underpinnings of AI and PP, look at how they currently contribute to our understanding of positive organizational change, and consider how they can contribute to the future of what we are calling “innovation-inspired positive organizational development.”

It is worth noting, in passing, that the word “positive” has become very popular in the worlds of psychology and organizational change but means different things to different people. The language of positivity is still some way from a place of shared meaning. This is compounded by professional domains of meaning-making that still separate the individual from the social. A good illustration is the 850-page Handbook of Positive Psychology, which contains not a single reference to OD (Snyder & Lopez, 2005).

However, before we become too negative, it is worth observing that both AI and PP represent a significant splitting off from previous paradigms of thought and practice in the fields of organizational and individual change. This chapter aims to engage both in conversation, with the hope that the strengths of each will complement the other and deepen our shared understanding of positive change.





13.2 Appreciative Inquiry


In this section we consider the various definitions of AI and look at its philosophical and theoretical bases, before concluding with some reflections on the relationship between AI, psychology, and PP.





13.2.1 What is it?


A relatively straightforward definition of AI is that it is “about the search for the best in people, their organizations, and the strengths-enriched world around them” (Whitney et al., 2010, p. 1). However, a number of earlier texts elaborate on this to try and capture something of the philosophy and practices encapsulated by the term. In the original articulation of AI, Cooperrider & Srivastva (1987) argue that root metaphors matter, and they raise the distinction between seeing collective existence as a “problem-to-be-solved” versus a “mystery-and-miracle” of human interaction. They write:

In contrast to a type of research that is lived without a sense of mystery, the appreciative mode awakens the desire to create and discover new social possibilities that can enrich our existence and give it meaning … (AI) is an inquiry process that takes nothing for granted, searching to apprehend the basis of organizational life and working to articulate those possibilities giving witness to a better existence (p. 157).

The focus, in the earliest writings, was not on “positive” or “negative” but on the the question of what gives life to this living system when it is most alive—where appreciation is an experiencing of those things worth valuing. AI is presented in a discovery-oriented spirit of inquiry that draws us into “an experience which lies on the borderline between wonderment and admiration” and is based on a spiritual metaphor of life as a mystery and miracle (p. 91). On this point, again highlighting the idea that our starting assumptions matter, Cooperrrider draws on the words of Albert Einstein: “There are only two ways to live your life. One is as though nothing is a miracle. The other is as though everything is a miracle” (Cooperrider, 1996, p. 4). Appreciative knowledge is something that emerges as we seek to understand the life-giving present. In a more practice-oriented sense, Cooperrider et al. (2008) state that AI is “the co-operative co-evolutionary search for the best in people, their organizations, and the world around them … it involves the art and practice of asking questions that strengthen a system’s capacity to apprehend, anticipate and heighten positive potential” (p. 3).

Bushe (1998a) locates AI in the domain of research methodologies: “AI is a form of Action Research that attempts to help groups, organizations and communities create new, generative images for themselves based on an affirmative understanding of their past” (p. 41). Faure (2006) describes something of the challenge in defining AI when he writes, “In essence it is both a deceptively simple philosophy and a rigourous approach to managing change in human systems” (p. 22). Given this intertwining of a philosophical stance and practical application, it is perhaps not surprising that people struggle with explaining precisely what AI actually is, with some writers resorting to an almost religious definition that encourages people to consider how AI challenges their perspective on the world and their way of “being” in it (Watkins & Mohr, 2001). Others, like Stamps & Lipnack (2004), choose to define AI in terms of what it stands against: “AI arose in the late 1980’s in reaction to the problem orientated logical-positivist science that provided the intellectual foundation for the Industrial Era” (p. 30).

Each of the definitions we have cited gives a flavour of AI as a living research process engaging with human systems and based upon a set of philosophical understandings about the way the social world in which we live is being continually co-constructed between us. You will note that we have avoided emphasizing the term “organization” in our definition; that is because, while AI is often used in the context of organizations, it is also frequently adopted across large-scale human systems, embracing local, city, national, and international communities. This chapter will primarily focus on describing how AI operates as a change process in an organizational context.





13.2.2 Underpinning theories of AI


A core idea supporting AI is the belief that the appreciative process of knowing is socially constructed and “that through our assumptions and choice of method we largely create the world we later discover” (Cooperrider & Srivastva, 1987, p. 129). In other words, inquiry and change are not separate moments, but are simultaneous. Inquiry is intervention. The seeds of change—the things people think about and talk about, the things ­people discover and learn, and the things that inform dialogue and inspire images of the future—are implicit in the very first questions we ask. The questions set the stage for what we find, and what we discover (the data) becomes the linguistic material, the stories, out of which the future is concieved and constructed (Cooperrider & Whitney, 1999, pp. 50–51).

As people interact within a social system, so knowledge is created. Social constructionism, a theory or paradigm to which AI owes much, takes this one step further and argues that this is not separate empirical knowledge but the reality of people’s lived experience. Constructionism is an approach to human science that replaces the individual with ­relationships as the locus of knowledge. Therefore, this approach is built around a keen appreciation of the power of language and discourse of all types (from words to metaphors to narrative forms, and so on) to create our sense of reality—our sense of the true, the good, and the possible.

A key proponent of this perspective, Ken Gergen, has written extensively on this approach, both to explain it (Gergen, 1997a, 2001b) and to apply it to organizational ­science (Gergen & Thatchenkery, 1996) and social psychology (Gergen, 1997b). It is unsurprising that in academic circles social constructionism is hotly debated, given that for some it strikes at the heart of modernist thinking about truth and knowledge, arguing that reality is constructed between people. It has been suggested that it is a truly postmodern philosophic perspective, as Bushe comments: “the dominant theoretical rationale for AI is post-modernist European philosophy” (Bushe, 1998b, p. 2). Trying to get a grip on what social constructionism actually is can be difficult, given that those sympathetic to the idea want to avoid falling into the trap of making it a “thing” that is fixed rather than part of an ongoing dialogue between us about the nature of social reality. A helpful proposition is that both social constructionism and AI can be viewed as “variable social constructions … manifest in many different ways in different local-cultural and local-historical contexts” (Van der Haar & Hosking, 2004, p. 1017). This goes some way to explaining why AI practitioners outside a North American context—where the ideas originated—often need to use different terminology and constructs to engage their audiences.

Based upon the discussion so far, you may be forgiven for thinking that social constructionism is a values-neutral proposition, where people interacting together create worlds that are both good and bad. This misses one of the key elements vital to understanding AI: the notion of generativity. Bushe (2010) picks this up and references Gergen’s (1978) key paper on the topic—“Toward Generative Theory.” He notes that Gergen saw social construction as a means to build what he called “generative capacity,” which, by Gergen’s definition, is the “capacity to challenge the guiding assumptions of the culture, to raise fundamental questions regarding contemporary social life, to foster reconsideration of that which is taken for granted and therby furnish new alternatives for social actions” (p. 1346). This sounds a little like a call to revolution, and, as in all revolutions, there is the implication that what it causes in society will be better (more positive) than the status quo. AI picks up the notion of generative capacity and incorporates it into its methodology and language. While not explicitly positive in its definition, it is implicitly, and often explicitly, positive in its practice.2





13.2.3 AI and psychology


Almost 10 years before the term “positive psychology” was coined by Martin Seligman and Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi in 2000, Cooperrider wrote an integrative review of psychology and the human sciences on the role of the positive in human systems: the role of positive emotions, positive language, positive learning, positive images, positive culture as it relates to human systems development. Recognizing the epistemological differences between empiricist approaches to “a scholarship of the positive,” growing out of the neurosciences and pyschology, and social-constructionist approaches, Cooperrider placed the two fields in juxtaposition, arguing that both converge around one point: “we human beings create our own realities through symbolic and mental processes and … because of this, conscious evolution of the future is a human option.” The purpose of “a scholarship of the positive” was to help constructionist thought move beyond it trajectory of critique and deconstruction “to discover the affirmative task of social theory and to engage in forms of knowing that serve to make collective reality comprehensible from the perspective of human possibility” (Cooperrider, 1990, p. 92).

And how is this done? In constructionist terms, there is a recognition that the limits of language are the limits of our worlds. Vocabularies of the positive—in the world of critical theory—are almost nowhere to be found. This is why Cooperrider et al. (1995) embraced the empirical work of behavioral science, focusing on the positive—for example, the studies on positive emotion, the Pygmalion dynamic, and positive self-monitoring—as a way to accelerate learning, because it was producing new language of what gives life to human systems. This language of “the true, the good, the better and the possible,” they argued, mattered because “words enable worlds” (p. 163).

Cooperrider (1990) provided the first model showing why and how the paradigm ­dialogue between contructionist scholarship and empiricist research could mutually ­reinforce each of its constituents. This reflects the ongoing quest to create a “scholarship of the positive” that elevates topics such as wisdom, courage, integrity, flourishing, excellence, and the like. That article, embracing constructionist meta-theory and the empirical studies of the positive in human systems, significantly bridged the two approaches to create the opportunity for a dialogue across paradigmatic assumptions. Cooperrider and Seligman have given speeches all over the world together, and Cooperrider teaches ­regulary in the Masters Program in Positive Psychology at the University of Pennsylvania.

As Whitney et al. (2010) write:

Today the positive psychology movement is a gathering force in international psychology and is gaining the support of funding sources and eductional institutions. Why? It seems that psychologists like organizational development consultants, have recognized that human systems move in the direction of what they study and that to contribute constructively to human and societal well-being we need to develop a vocabulary of joy, hope and health (p. 85).

Most recently, Cooperidder and Godwin have observed that recent years have seen a huge advancement in what they term the “science and scholarship of the positive.” They cite the development of emotional intelligence (Goleman et al., 2004), advances in AI (Cooperrider et al., 2004), spirals of positive emotions in organizations (Fredrickson, 2003), and the science of happiness (Seligman, 2002) as good examples of a shift taking place. They also argue that the development of academic programs in respected universties that focus on positive OD is good evidence of a growing synergy between the field of OD, including AI, and the emerging field of PP (Cameron & Speitzer, 2011).

Behind this debate, according to Cooperrider and Godwin, a piece of the puzzle, which is truly needed by both AI and PP, is still missing (in Cameron & Speitzer G, 2011). This is a solid understanding of the term “positive change.” Both domains claim ownership of methods that offer hope and happiness—personal and/or organizational. Neither approach, however, is able, at this point in time, to securely support its theories with evidence. They are also not able to fully counter the voices of criticism, which argue that the word “positive” is overused, frequently misapplied, and generally misunderstood. For those in the AI and PP movements, however, these criticisms are a call to inquiry: What gives life to this living system when it is most alive?





13.3 Positive Psychology


In this section we will consider some definitions of PP, reflect on its underpinning ­theories, and locate it in relation to mainstream psychology.





13.3.1 What is it?


“Psychology” is defined in the Oxford English Dictionary as “the scientific study of the human mind and its functions especially those affecting behaviour in a given context” (Pearsall et al., 2003, p. 1420). PP definitions include: “the scientific study of optimal human factors that aims to discover and promote the factors that allow individuals and communities to thrive” (Seligman & Csikszentmihalyi, 2000, p. 5).

Seligman, one of the founding fathers of PP in the late 1990s and early 2000s, recently stated that psychology “is not just the study of disease, weakness and damage; it is also about work, education, insight, love, growth and play … Positive Psychology does not rely on self-deception or hand-waving; instead it tries to adapt what is best in the scientific method to the unique problems that human behaviour presents in all its complexity” (Snyder & Lopez, 2005, p. 5).

Boniwell (2006) states that the aspiration of PP is “to bring solid empirical research into areas such as well-being, flow, personal strengths, wisdom, creativity, psychological health and characteristics of positive groups and institutions” (p. 1).

To differentiate it from positive thinking, Lewis (2011) suggests that PP is subject to the “rigours of scientific experimentation and endorsement suggesting that the phenomena discovered are reliable and repeatable … Positive thinking deals more with the realm of anecdote and exhortation” (p. 3).

Given AI, with its upfront social-constructionist and postmodernistic foundations, and PP, with its positivistic, scientific outlook, you may well be wondering at this point why two so seemingly distant theortical cousins are in the same chapter of a book—perhaps even why they are in the same book. It’s a good question, and we invite you to hold it in your thoughts as you go with us on an inquiry into the similiarities and differences ­between AI and PP, particularly in relation to the notion of organizational change. A temptation is for us to open up a very broad, and still ongoing, debate about the relationship between psychology and social constructionism. We will touch on it, but our intention is to focus on the potential of both AI and PP to support organizational change.





13.3.2 Underpinning theories of PP


We have already alluded to the theoretical location of PP in a positivistic, scientific paradigm with an emphasis on empirical research methods, and to the assertion that through such observations, generalizable truth about effective interventions may be identified and applied to clients/patients by qualified practitioners. For our purposes, Gergen (2001a), in a helpful analysis, identifies some of the thinking that underpins what he calls “psychological science.”

First, he draws attention to the notion held by Descartes and others from the early days of the Enlightment that the mind is self-contained and able to observe and draw rational conclusions without reference to others. The implication is that the more you know about the mind, the more you know about human beings. Second, he notes the distinction ­between the external material world and the internal world of the mind. The mind is objectively able to observe the world and draw rational conclusions about cause and effect. Finally, and of least importance to modernist thinkers according to Gergen, he notes that language is the means by which the mind communicates truth to other people. Collections of words which summarize scientific observations should, by implication, accurately describe the world as it actually is. This is perhaps, as Gergen suggests, one area of mutual interest and overlap which offers the possibility of a fresh dialogue.

Gergen goes on to contrast this perspective on the mind and knowledge with a ­postmodern view concerning socially constructed realities. What is particularly interesting is his observation that psychological science “has long been dedicated to a posture of value neutrality” (Gergen, 2001a, p.808). The implication is that “facts” can be seperated from “values.” He suggests that the reality is that, from a postmodernistic perspective, this ­distiction becomes blurred. What research method you adopt has as much of an impact on society as the application of your findings. All elements have values attached to them. Gergen asserts that to avoid these issues “is not only myopic but irresponsible” (p. 809). So when you put the word “positive” in front of the word “psychology,” you are most definitely implying a whole set of values around what is considered “positive” and what is considered “negative.” Similarly, when you add the word “appreciative” to the word “inquiry” you are are also bringing a set of values to what might be considered a relatively neutral “scientific” term for research. Perhaps a revolution is underway?

Gergen wants to encourage a conversation between psychological science and social constructionism that brings psychology out of its historical empiricist position and enables new generative methodologies to flower.

While there still remains a seemingly wide philosophical gap between the two, both AI and PP share some common features which perhaps explain why they are of interest to those engaged with organizational change. They both:

Hold the belief that human beings can, and indeed deserve to, flourish in organizational or institutional contexts and derive much personal happiness from this (Seligman & Csikszentmihalyi, 2000).

Seek to search out strengths and understand how these can be used to grow new ways of living.

Encourage the development of language that supports the co-construction of a shared understanding of what it is to live and work positively.

Talk about the positive, even though there is perhaps no sense of agreement about what exactly this means in an organizational-change context.

In their own ways have offered challenges to the established way of thinking. AI pushes the field of OD to rethink its historically modernist approach, while PP asks psychology as a science to move out of its alleged value-neutral assumptions about people and become assertive about what makes for a good life.



Both are pioneers of thought and practice in our times and it is no surprise that they feel drawn to one another, even though it may be for comfort at times!

In conclusion, AI and PP claim positive change as their territory of expertise. PP ­however is cautious about entering into the world of organizational change, seeing its role as offering “empirical backing by evaluating both the objective and subjective impact of organizational change practices” (Boniwell, 2006, p. 115). AI similarly seems cautious about entering the domain of PP, viewing its development over the past decade as a perhaps overly optimistic sign that a shared movement towards the positive is taking place, and maybe wanting and willing to see in the field of psychology a redefining and rethinking of its priniciples and practices, even though evidence of a move away from a conventional empiricist approach within PP may be fairly minimal at the present time (Whitney et al., 2010).





13.3.3 PP and its psychological perspectives


In presenting it to the wider psychology community, PP supporters tend to adopt a number of positions. First, that PP in its recent manifestation in the last 2 decades is the consequence of a major eureka moment by Martin Seligman, a clinical psychologist, who after a question from his daughter about why he had been such a grouch for so long, realized that he needed to change and focus on nuturing the best qualities in himself and others (Seligman & Csikszentmihalyi, 2000). Second, that PP is providing a long-overdue counterbalance to mainstream clinical psychology, which has, they say, particularly since World War II, become too focused on curing mental illness and locked into a disease model (Boniwell, 2006).

Linley et al. (2006), in a review paper worth reading in its entirety, suggest that this counterbalancing is the metapsychological function and aspiration of PP. In the years since Seligman shared his personal revelation, academics have suggested that PP was always a part of true psychological understanding and practice. Boniwell argues that PP can be traced back to the thoughts of Aristotle, who “believed that there was a unique daimon or spirit within each of us. Acting in accordance with this daimon leads one to happiness.” She goes on to cite hedonism and utilitarianism as examples of man searching for happiness (Boniwell, 2006, p. 40).

More recent antecendants of PP can arguably be found in the domain of humanistic psychology, whose principle theorists include Clark Moustakas, Carl Rogers, and perhaps most famously, Abraham Maslow. Humanistic psychology broadly concerns itself with human life in its fullness, including meanings, values, freedom, personal responsibility, human potential, and self-actualization. It takes the view that people are essentially good.3

While the topics of interest to humanistic psychologists are similar to those of interest to positive psychologists, they differ in their preferred research paradigms and methods. Whereas those from the humanistic school insist that their research objectives require the use of qualitative research methods, including constructivist approaches, those from the positive school have a preference for quantative and more traditional research methods.

Linley et al. (2006) observe that one of the key successes of PP has been the introduction of a new taxonomy of human strengths into the language of psychology. They suggest the routes that PP may take in the future: either disappearing althogether because it has become fully integated into mainstream psychology or else still existing within the mainstream as a separate area of research but becoming increasingly marginalized. The continued development and influence of PP during the last 5 years suggests that PP is increasingly a part of psychology orthodoxy.





13.4 Understanding Change


We now consider how AI and PP understand the notion of change in an organizational context.





13.4.1 AI and change in an organizational context


Perhaps no other word sparks in us a greater reaction than the word “change.” It connects with us at a deeply personal level, igniting both fear and excitement about the unknown future. Given that most of us have mixed personal experiences of organizations, when the words “change” and “organization” are put together in one sentence we instinctively react with our own set of assumptions about how change happens. Our reactions originate from our understandings of how the world works and who we are in it. This set of beliefs, combined with our interpretation of past experiences and educational and familial influences, forms our individual understanding of “the way things are” and the way we think human systems change. As we interact with people and the wider economic, technological, ecological, and cultural environment, our sense of what change is or is not shifts and itself changes.

The literature on organizational change views it in a similar fashion. It has, since ­organizational management and change was first described in the early years of the 20th century, reflected the assumptions, environmental changes, and human experiences of the times.

The principles of scientific management proposed by Frederick Taylor reflect the views of the early 20th century (Taylor, 1911). He represents the modernistic mindset, ­espousing ideals from the Enlightenment period, including the perfectability of man (and organizations) and the expectation of continual progress, which can be achieved by the self-reliant use of reason or rationality. By adopting a “scientific” rationale for his theories, he argued that the best way to improve production was to measure and track behavior over time, in order to develop the most efficient or “single best way” to do a job. This implied that ­perfect organizations could be designed by rectifying problems in existing ones (­Mautner,1999).

We argue that Taylor’s legacy is embedded in organizational-change theory and manifests itself in a number of key beliefs that are implicit, and often explicit, in modernist change literature:

The power of problem-solving to change organizations.

The power of naming problems to produce change.

The power of instruction to achieve change.

The belief that emotions are problematic.

The power of criticism and fear to motivate change.

The belief in the head and body organizational split.

The belief in the power of separating elements to enhance clarity and so the ability to act efficiently.

The belief in a “right answer” to the problem of design (Lewis et al., 2008a).



Pick any of your preferred theories of organizational change and check them against these beliefs and we think you will be surprised at what you find. For example, Kurt Lewin’s (1943) well-known and linear unfreeze–change–freeze model continues to be a popular recipe for OD. Indeed, it has been said that the whole of classical organizational-change theory is reducible to this one idea of Lewin’s (Weick & Quinn, 1999b). John Kotter’s well-known eight steps on how to successfully tranform your organization continues to be another very popular organizational-change model, elaborating on Lewin’s approach (Kotter, 1996). There are many others.

Since the 1980s, there has been a growing interest in what may be described as ­postmodernist approaches to organizational change. AI is perhaps becoming one of the most well-known and widely-adopted practical expressions of this approach to supporting organizational change.

What are the principles that underpin AI’s approach to organizational change? ­Cooperrider & Srivastvra (1987) envisaged AI as a “conceptual reconfiguration of action research” (p. 129), arguing that for action research to reach its potential as a vehicle for social innovation it needed to move away from its problem focus, which the authors percieved as acting as “a primary constraint on its imagination and contribution to knowledge” (p. 129). They also argued that, in an organizational-change context, it is the question or inquiry that engages with the mystery of life and opens up thinking. The defining of a problem restricts thinking to dealing with what can be said to be a socially-constructed perspective of an apparent event in the past, rather than energizing people to look for future possibilities. As an aside, we can see here an early link to the role ­Seligman & ­Csikszentmihalyi (2000) percieved PP to fulfill with regard to the discipline of psychology, bringing it from a problem or illness focus to a life-giving focus.

The term “action research” was first used by Kurt Lewin in the 1940s to describe a method in which theory and pratice are combined in an interventionist type of research to produce results that are both rigourous and relevant (Hajnal, 2005)—in other words, research undertaken in a social context that leads to specific social action. Action research, with its original emphasis on inquiry leading to action, can therefore be considered an early predecessor of AI. What AI offers is a combination of social-constructionist perspectives on the nature of organizational change with an action-research type of framework grounded in the desire to grow strengths rather than resolve problems. So, while modernist approaches to organizational change might aim implicitly or explicitly for managed deliberate change in pattern, order, hierachy, and control, a postmodern approach like AI will expect instability, chaos, uncertainty, and full involvement by all parties in change. We have deliberately exagerated the dicotomy between the two positions to emphasize the substantial nature of the diference ­between them.

AI is constructed on five principles:

(1) The constructionist principle—Reality as we know it is a subjective state, rather than an objective one.

(2) The principle of simultaniety—Inquiry is intervention and creates change. The moment we begin to ask a question, we begin to create change.

(3) The poetic principle—Human organizations are an open book and their stories are constantly being coauthored. Pasts, presents, and futures are endless sources of learning, inspiration, and interpretation. We have a choice about what we study and what we study changes organizations.

(4) The anticipatory principle—Human systems move in the direction of their images of the future. The more positive and hopeful the image of the future, the more positive the present-day action.

(5) The positive principle—Momentum for large-scale change requires large amounts of positive affect and social bonding. This momentum is best generated through positive questions that amplify the positive core (adapted from Cooperrider et al., 2008 and Whitney et al., 2010).



How these principles play out in the practice of AI will be explored in Section 13.5.1.





13.4.2 PP and change in an organizational context


We have previously referred to the ambiguity and confusion caused by the overuse of the words “positive” and “change.” A way of reframing this is to understand that we are engaged in a conversation that is opening up new questions about the process of change and the values and beliefs we bring to change in our lives, both as individuals and as groups of individuals in organizations. As in any vibrant conversation, new themes emerge, connections are made, assumptions go unspoken, and misunderstandings happen. Space does not permit a full elaboration of the metaconversation, so we will focus on the essentials of PP as it was originally elaborated by Seligman and Csikszentmihalyi in 2000 and identify any specific connections with organizational change.

Seligman & Csikszentmihalyi (2000) suggest that PP operates at three levels. The first is the subjective level, with its study of positive experiences such as joy, well-being, and happiness. The second is the level of the individual, with the aim of identifying the ­constituents of the positive, fufilling life and the positive personal traits associated with being able to live positively. The third focuses on the level of institutions—what makes for positive institutions (note that organizations per se are not mentioned) and what moves individuals towards altruism, civility, better citzenship, and work ethic (Seligman & ­Csikszentmihalyi, 2000).

One criticism of PP is that very little research has been undertaken into the nature and development of positive institutions. Traditional science-based psychological researchers have instead largely focused on identifying methods for measuring personal strengths and responding to the call to adapt what is best in the scientific method to the unique problems that human nature presents to those who wish to understand it in all its complexity (Seligman & Csikszentmihalyi, 2000).

In the past decade, a whole literature has developed around positive organizational behavior, which Luthans (2003) defines as “the study and application of positively orientated human resource strengths and psychological capacities that can be measured, developed and effectively managed for performance improvement in todays workplace” (p. 178). The focus has been on research that considers how positive personality traits relate to work performance, core self-evaluations (self-esteem, generalizized self-efficacy, locus of control, and emotional stability), and positive psychological traits (Luthans & Youssef, 2007).

What all of this suggests is that PP, particularly the field of positive organizational behavior, has contributed much to emerging thinking about individual development and performance within an organizational context. It constitutes the “what” that needs to be done to help individuals perform positively. However, it has not added much knowledge per se to our understanding of the “how” of organizational change.





13.4.3 Commonalities and differences between how AI and PP understand change in an organizational context


13.4.3.1 Commonalities


Both AI and PP make humanistic assumptions about the essential goodness of people and the innate desire of groups of people to create better life experiences for themselves as individuals and as groups. For Fineman (2006), this means that “an optimistic route to optimistic outcomes” pervades both domains and acts as a backcloth to all the literature and theories (p. 271). As a result, both AI and PP proponents have been described as evangelical in the propogation of the positive “gospel.” Both AI and PP believe change can happen in organizations that are positively orientated. AI, with its notion of the “positive core,” emphasises the need to tap into the core strengths of an organization in order to create a new future (Cooperrider et al., 2008). This is complemented by PP’s focus on measuring personal strengths that support effective perfomance in an organizational context. It is also echoed in the PP notion of positive institutions (Seligman & Csikszentmihalyi, 2000). PP brings an understanding of the nature of well-being and ­happiness in work contexts that echoes some of the assumptions AI makes about the engagement of people in change processes. Arguably, both support organizational change through their use of affirmative language and the belief that the language of the positive is in itself a support for growth and development. It is worth mentioning that AI and PP are rooted in a North American culture and worldview. It is in that context that both have developed and become popular.





13.4.3.2 Differences


Perhaps the most fundamental difference is the sense that PP strongly supports the need to provide scientific evidence to support its methods and practices, while AI offers an opportunity for all people involved in an organization to create a new future based on their own inquiry, which does not necessarily involve the scientific method nor hypothesis testing. A PP perspective talks about interventions (often it is not made explicit who makes these interventions or how), while AI talks of a co-created process that supports co-construction of a new organization alongside a new way of positively valuing one another.

Essentially, they are answering two different, but allied, questions, from two different change paradigms. AI answers the question of what people can do to create new ways of working by suggesting the use of a co-designed relational-inquiry process that will enable them to make the future happen as they inquire together. PP answers the question of what makes for the greatest satisfaction, happiness, and effectiveness in the workplace by offering the use of formal scientific methods to test theories on sample groups. The aim is to create knowledge that ultimately can be applied in all organizational contexts to enhance well-­being and performance.





13.5 The Change Process


We now consider how, in practice, AI and PP aim to deliver change in an organization context.





13.5.1 How does the AI literature describe the change process?


Proponents of AI tend to begin any description of an AI change process with some consideration of the principles and practices of AI. They are aware that they are engaged in a dialogue with change managers whose training has typically focused on change as a linear process of key steps directed from outside the system under consideration. Such managers have tended to adopt the machine metaphor, believing that change can be planned and directed in a rational scientific manner. The literature positions AI as a ­contrast to this and defines it as:

A relational process of inquiry, grounded in affirmation and appreciation (Whitney et al., 2010).

A form of transformational inquiry that selectively seeks to locate, highlight, and illuminate the “life-giving” forces of an organization’s existence (Cooperrider et al., 2008).

A new way of engaging with one another—it meets a deep-seated need in each of us to be respected, to be listened to, and to have the opportunity to shape the future (Lewis et al., 2008).



AI proposes that the combination of appreciation (an attitude of mind and heart) and inquiry (a set of practices and processes) produces “a vital and powerful catalytic effect on leadership and organizational change. By tapping into accounts of organizations that are functioning at their best AI unleashes information and commitment that together create energy for positive change” (Whitney et al., 2010, p. 4).

It is not surprising therefore that efforts to use AI as a change process try to balance explanations and encouragements with efforts to develop in change managers an ­appreciation of the value of an inquiry process within the organizational or community context. The theory states that if you get both, positive change will happen.

In order for change managers to develop an appreciative mindset, Cooperrider et al. (2008) suggest they need to understand the five principles outlined in Section 13.4.1 and internalize them as the basis for the inquiry process. At one level, this sounds straightforward, but for those who bring a scientific understanding of organizational change to the process it requires a revolution in thought and a major change in the lens through which they view the world. So, for example, if you believe there is definite truth about what is a good outcome for a specific organizational change, you will find yourself challenged by the AI principles, which ask you to acknowledge not only that such “truth” is not externally verifiable but also that the truth can only be constructed by discussions and dialogue between the change agent and the organization. It is the multiple relationships with others in which conversations and inquiries take place that not only lead to change but are the change in themselves.

Perhaps the greatest hurdle to overcome for many is the difficulty of leaving behind a mindset that begins a change process by defining “problems” and shifting to one that begins by exploring strengths and successes.4

If the AI mindset is present in an organization, or available to it through an external consultancy, what are the practices and processes that make AI successful? Some suggest that using AI is “like sitting down to dinner in a fine restaurant. The choices seem unlimited and there are so many possible combinations that no two dinners—even in the same restaurant—are ever the same” (Whitney et al., 2010, p. 23). This metaphor illustrates the desire of theorists and practitioners to encourage flexibility and the adaptation of an AI process to the particular situation of an organization or community.

However, that is not to say that a clear set of steps is not offered. AI offers what has been termed the “4-D Cycle.” The aim of this cycle is to help the organization understand its positive core, which is the life-giving forces of the organization’s existence (Cooperrider et al., 2008). The authors explain that behind an AI process is the desire to understand when an organization is most healthy and alive, and based on this knowledge to understand what possibilities this creates for the future.

The cycle is usually described in four steps, although, in reality, there are five. The first is a preparatory step to agree upon the affirmative topic that serves as the initial focus of the inquiry (Cooperrider et al., 2008). The subsequent four are:

(1) Discovery—This phase focuses on helping people tell their stories about when they experienced the topic of the inquiry at its best. This may range from an aspect of customer service through to the whole organization. The approach used is often one of appreciative interviews, where people within the organization interview one another to elicit stories of great perfomance.

(2) Dream—The “data” collected in the first stage are then used to help people, in conversation with one another, to build on what they have discovered about the organization at its best and project this into their wishes, hopes, and aspirations for the organization’s future. Such dreams are not abstract, but rather grounded in people’s past experiences.

(3) Design—This stage is concerned with shared decision-making about how to make the dream a reality in the context. The design phase defines the basic structure that will allow the dream to be realised. Like the other phases, the design phase requires widespread dialogue about the nature of the structure and the processes. This is what is meant by co-constructing the organization’s future.

(4) Destiny—Finally, groups or individuals are encouraged to take forward the actions identified during the previous phases and make them a tangible reality alongside the shifts of mindset and attitude that have taken place in the conversations ­during the process. A closing celebration is held (Cooperrider et al., 2008; Lewis et al., 2008).



For further information about the “how-to” of AI, please read any of the books referenced in this chapter. Each contains case studies that bring the process to life and illustrate the diverse ways in which AI has been crafted to meet particular circumstances.

In its early days, the “how” of AI in an organizational context required the hiring of organizational-change consultants. This is changing as more people have become aware of the principles and practices and are using them in a wide variety of contexts, including coaching, team development, and organizational and whole-system transformation. There is no certification process that attests to the qualifications of AI practitioners. In contrast, a positive psychologist will be able to reference their professional credentials—usually licensure or chartering—as evidence of their expertise.





13.5.2 How does the PP literature describe the change process?


PP does not directly specify a process for organizational change. Lewis (2011) has, ­however, indicated how AI can be can be added to PP to create inspiring organizations. This approach is interesting because of the energy and mental discipline that is necessary to use both approaches at once, since they are firmly based in contrasting and at times contradictory philosophical paradigms.

In practice, someone who considers themselves a positive psychologist working with organizations may offer some or all of the ideas and interventions listed in Table 13.1 to those leading change, based on the assumption that in combination, positive change will happen. This is not a comprehensive list and more opportunities to adapt PP approaches in organizations are continually being developed. For example, Lewis (2011) identifies the following domains to which PP can be applied:

Positive engagement and performance.

Positive communication and decision-making.

Positive leadership and change.

Positive relationships at work.

Positive sustainable growth.

Positive transformation.



In the later two categories, Lewis weaves in the value and complementarity of AI alongside PP in the development and transformation of the organization.

There is relatively little in the PP literature concerning the “how” of organizational change. The assumption is that PP will provide a variety of approaches to achieve a positive result: one-to-one coaching, team facilitation, occupational health advice, external ­diagnostic assessments of organizational well-being, expert organizational consultancy activities, input to organizational policies and strategies, training activities, and leadership development. While this is not an exhaustive list, it gives the reader some idea of what activities can be involved.

Table 13.1 PP-based interventions to promote positive change in an organization.

Adapted from Boniwell, I. (2006). Positive psychology in a nutshell: A balanced introduction to the science of optimal functioning London: Personal Well-Being Centre.

Topic Activity

Job variety Redesigning jobs to make work more interesting

Intrinisic motivation Helping employees find satisfaction in the value of the work they do

Confidence Supporting employees in practices that build personal self-confidence

Creativity Helping create organizational environments that support people using creative instincts and abilities

Strengths work Encouraging organizations to identify and support the strengths of the people working for them

Team-building Facilitating the effective functioning of teams

Meta-perspective Enabling people to see the benefits and also downsides of strengths; this leads to a more balanced approach to the development of the whole person

Flow Finding ways of helping people experience work as entirely fulfilling and all-absorbing

Participatory working practices Supporting workers to have more control over what they do and when they do it

Open climate, empowerment, and self-organization Giving employees control and even ownership of the company; one step on from participation





13.5.3 Commonalities and differences between how AI and PP approach change in an organizational context


13.5.3.1 Commonalities


We have already discussed the sense of optimism and the possibility of positive change that both AI and PP espouse. You will also have a sense that both view language as important, although AI tends to focus on the co-creation of shared meaning, while PP takes a more traditional problem-solving approach, which includes a taxonomy that is to be understood by everyone involved. Both approaches to change tend to assume a degree of expertise and understanding, although AI is perhaps more open to being adapted and adopted by those from any profession, while PP is most often practiced by professionals trained in psychology. Both AI and PP provide a linear-stage model for organizational change. AI provides the 4-D Cycle and PP a linear diagnosis-and-“treament” model.





13.5.3.2 Differences


PP, with its “fine-grain” diagnostic approach to behaviors and attitudes, contrasts with AI’s interest in supporting large-scale processes of change. AI does not explicitly consider behaviors and PP does not explicitly consider organizational-change processes. AI assumes that everyone together will make new meaning and create the future, while PP takes the “expert” position, offering advice on what actions others need to take to improve or change. AI seeks unity of action and purpose in the change process, while PP makes no attempt to offer a unifying theory but is content with specific change interventions to address particular topics. Someone using the AI perspective might describe organizational change as having everyone coming together to improve their situation, while someone using the PP approach might prefer to concentrate on measuring specific outcomes in specific aspects of organizational well-being.





13.6 What is Emerging for PP and AI in the Field of Organizational Change?


Just as we began by considering the range of past and present influences on the field of organizational-change theory and practice, so we conclude with a few pointers to what we believe the future will hold.

Both PP and AI find themselves together under the umbrella of a number of developing schools of thought. For example, positive organizational scholarship (POS), based at the Center for Positive Organizational Scholarship at the University of Michigan, focuses on “dynamics in human organizations that lead to developing human strength, producing restoration and resilience, fostering vitality and cultivating extraordinary individuals” (http://www.centerforpos.org). The center aims for a breadth and inclusivity in ­supporting research on the importance of a positive perspective. It make frequent reference to both AI and PP in its literature. Earlier we referred to Luthans’ work in defining a new field of positive organizational behavior that incorporates PP as part of its theoretical basis (Luthans & Youssef, 2007).

There is also a growing interest in the field of conversational approaches to change, which is manifesting itself in the adoption by positive organizational change practitioners of world-café, open-space, future-search, and circle-conversational methods (Lewis et al., 2008). We can expect to see further scholarship in the years ahead exploring the contribution that conversation, as a change process, can make to positive-change efforts.

These developments have not been without their critics, and in the future we can ­continue to expect criticism of the lack of support in the research literature for the benefits of taking a “positive-change” approach. Fineman (2006) highlights what he sees as the sidelining of negative feelings—“sources of disruption or destruction” in the “positive project” (p. 274). He argues that so-called negative emotions can hold the key to improved organizational performance, rather than the opposite. Fineman also challenges positive practitioners about their negative attitudes towards those who express negative feelings in the context of a change process. He descibes this as an “unarticulated dark-side to ­positiveness” (p. 281).

A perception that the positive-change school of thought reflects North American cultural norms rather than a more universal approach has also been commented upon. Recently Boniwell, a British academic proponent of PP, has critiqued some of PP’s weaknesses, citing the lack of a guiding cohesive theory, a reductionist scientific methodology, a proneness to drawing big conclusions out of weak findings, one-sidedness, and lack of balance (Boniwell, 2006).

In a review of 20 AI case studies, Bushe & Kassam (2005) found that 35% reported that the use of AI resulted in transformational change, including new knowledge and a new generative metaphor that changed the accepted thinking of system members. The study concluded that further research is warranted into the nature of transformational change and the role, or otherwise, of AI in specific contexts.

Stepping into the creative space that is being opened up through the dialogue around the topic of positive organizational change, Cooperrider & Godwin (2011) propose a ­re-envisioning of the field of OD by merging the streams of positive human science (including PP), AI, learning from nature (biomimicry), and design approaches. They call this new domain of theory and practice “innovation-inspired positive organizational development” (IPOD) and suggest that it involves three steps:

(1) elevating strengths;

(2) magnifiying strengths;

(3) refraction of strengths.



What these trends in theorizing and emerging practice suggest is that while differences in philosophy and practice differentiate AI and PP, these alone will not be sufficient to keep them separate, since each is a part of a wider movement of positive organizational change that continues to build energy as time passes. We live in exciting times.





Notes


1 We use the term “organizational development” to mean the body of knowledge and associated ­practices that support organisational change.

2 As a post-script it is worth noting the difference between social constructionism, which focuses on the creation of knowledge between people through their interactions, and social ­constructivism, which focuses on the learning an individual receives through their interactions. The two are, of course, ­intimately related (Kim, 2001).

3 For more information about humanistic psychology, the Association of Humanistic Psychologists Web site contains helpful material: http://www.ahpweb.org/.

4 AI does not deny people’s stories about organizational “problems” but encourages them to ­inquire into what these stories are telling them about the “other side of the coin,” when the ­experience of organizing is at its best. At the heart of people’s problem focus is a deep, heartfelt knowledge that life could be so much better. AI encourages people to access this yearning for what is not yet known and to work ­towards it collaboratively. AI does not prejudge what this future may be or assert what is, or is not, “positive” about it. That is the work to be done by those involved.





References


Amagoh, F. (2008). Perspectives on organisational change: systems and complexity theories. The Public Sector Innovation Journal, 13(3), 1.

Beer, J.S. & Hughes, B.L. (2010). Neural systems of social comparison and the. NeuroImage, 49(3), 2671–2679.

Boje, D., & Al Arkoubi, K. (2005). Third cybernetic revolution: beyond open to dialogic system theories. TAMARA: Journal of Critical Postmodern Organization Science, 4, 138–150.

Boniwell, I. (2006). Positive psychology in a nutshell: a balanced introduction to the science of optimal functioning. London: Personal Well-Being Centre.

Bushe, G.R. (1998a). Appreciative inquiry with teams. Organization Development Journal, 16, 41–50.

Bushe, G.R. (1998b). Five theories of change embedded in appreciative inquiry. 18th Annual World Congress of Organization Development. Retrieved April 17, 2006.

Bushe, G.R. (2009). Dialogic OD: turning away from diagnosis. In W.J. Rothwell, J.M. Stavros, R.L. Sullivan, & A. Sullivan, editors. Practicing Organization Development: A Guide for Managing and Leading Change. pp. 617–622.

Bushe, G.R. (2010). Generativity and the transformational potential of appreciative inquiry. Organizational Generativity: Advances in Appreciative Inquiry, 3

Bushe, G.R. & Kassam, A.F. (2005). When is appreciative inquiry transformational? A meta-case analysis. Journal of Applied Behavioral Science, 41(2), 161–181.

Bushe, G.R. & Marshak, R.J. (2009). Revisioning organization development. The Journal of Applied Behavioral Science, 45(3), 348.

Cacioppo, J.T., Berntson, G.G., Larsen, J.T., Poehlmann, K.M., & Ito, T.A. (2000). The psychophysiology of emotion. Handbook of Emotions, 2, 173–191.

Cameron, K. et al. (2003). Positive Organizational Scholarship—Foundations of a New Discipline. San Francisco: Berrett-Koehler Publishers.

Cooperrider, D.L. & Godwin, L.N. (2011). Appreciative inquiry. Positive organisational development: innovation-inspired change in an economy and ecology of strengths. In K. Cameron & G. Speitzer, editors. The Oxford Handbook of Positive Organizational Scholarship. New York: Oxford University Press. pp. 737–751.

Cooperrider, D.L. (1990). Positive image, positive action: the affirmative basis of organizing. In S. Srivastva and D. Cooperrider, editors. Executive Appreciation and Leadership. San Francisco: Jossey-Bass. pp. 91–125.

Cooperrider, D.L. (1996). The child as agent of inquiry. OD Practitioner, 1(28), 5–11.

Cooperrider, D.L., Avital, M., Foster, K., & Forster, R. (2004). Introduction: Advances in Appreciative Inquiry—Constructive Discourse and Human Organization Advances in Appreciative Inquiry, vol. 1. pp. xi–xxxiv.

Cooperrider, D.L., Barrett, F., & Srivastva, S. (1995). Social construction and appreciative inquiry: a journey in organizational theory. In D. Hosking, P. Dachler, & K. Gergen, editors. Management and Organization: Relational Alternatives to Individualism. Aldershot, UK: Avebury Press. pp. 157–200.

Cooperrider, D.L. & Srivastva, S. (1987). Appreciative inquiry in organizational life. Research in Organizational Change and Development, 1(1), 129–169.

Cooperrider, D.L., Whitney, D., Stavros, J.M., & Fry, R. (2008). Appreciative Inquiry Handbook: For Leaders of Change. San Francisco: Berrett-Koehler Publishers.

Faure, M. (2006). Problem solving was never this easy: transformational change through appreciative inquiry. Performance Improvement, 45(9), 22–31.

Fineman, S. (2006). On being positive: concerns and counterpoints. The Academy of Management Review Archive, 31(2), 270–291.

Fredrickson, B.L. (2003). Positive emotions and upward spirals in organizations. Positive Organizational Scholarship, 163–175.

Gergen, K.J. (1978). Toward generative theory. Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, 36(11), 1344.

Gergen, K.J. (1997a). Realities and Relationships: Soundings in Social Construction. Boston, MA: Harvard University Press.

Gergen, K.J. (1997b). Social psychology as social construction: the emerging vision. The Message of Social Psychology: Perspectives on Mind in Society, 113–128.

Gergen, K.J. (2001a). Psychological science in a postmodern context. American Psychologist, 56(10), 803.

Gergen, K.J. (2001b). Social Construction in Context. New York: Sage.

Gergen, K.J. & Thatchenkery, T.J. (1996). Organization science as social construction: postmodern potentials. The Journal of Applied Behavioral Science, 32(4), 356.

Goleman, D., Boyatzis, R.E., & McKee, A. (2004). Primal Leadership: Learning to Lead with Emotional Intelligence. Boston, MA: Harvard Business Press.

Hajnal, C.A. (2005). Using Appreciative Inquiry for Information Systems Research. Unpublished paper. Ottawa, ON: Sprott School of Business, Carleton University.

Harvey, D. (1989). The Condition of Postmodernity: An Enquiry into the Origins of Social Change. London: Wiley-Blackwell.

Kim, B. (2001). Social constructivism. Emerging Perspectives on Learning, Teaching, and Technology. Last accessed 12/05/11. http://projects.coe.uga.edu/epltt/index.php?title=Social_Constructivism.

Kotter, J.P. (1996). Leading Change. Boston, MA: Harvard Business School Press.

Lewin, K. (1943). Defining the field at a given time. Psychological Review, 50(3), 292.

Lewis, S., Passmore, J., & Cantore, S. (2008). Appreciative Inquiry for Change Management: Using AI to Facilitate Organizational Development. London: Kogan Page.

Lewis, S. (2011). Positive Psychology at Work, 1st edition. Chichester, UK: Wiley-Blackwell.

Linley, P.A., Joseph, S., Harrington, S., & Wood, A.M. (2006). Positive psychology: past, present, and (possible) future. The Journal of Positive Psychology, 1(1), 3.

Luthans, F. (2003). Positive organizational behavior: implications for leadership and HR development and motivation. In L.W. Porter, G.A. Bigley, & R.M. Steers, editors. Motivation and Work Behavior. New York: McGraw-Hill/Irwin. pp. 178–195.

Luthans, F. & Youssef, C.M. (2007). Emerging positive organizational behavior. Journal of Management, 33(3), 321.

Lyotard, J.F. (1984). The Postmodern Condition: A Report on Knowledge. Minneapolis, MN: University of Minnesota Press.

Mautner, T. (2005). The Penguin Dictionary of Philosophy. London: Penguin Books.

Pearsall, J., Hanks, P., Soanes, C., & Stevenson, A. (2003). Oxford Dictionary of English. London: Oxford University Press.

Rugg, M.D. & Yonelinas, A.P. (2003). Human recognition memory: a cognitive neuroscience ­perspective. Trends in Cognitive Sciences, 7(7), 313–319.

Seligman, M.E.P. (2002). Authentic Happiness: Using the New Positive Psychology to Realize Your Potential for Lasting Fulfillment. New York: Free Press.

Seligman, M.E.P. & Csikszentmihalyi, M. (2000). Positive psychology: an introduction. American Psychologist, 55(1), 5.

Snyder, C.R. & Lopez, S.J. (2005). Handbook of Positive Psychology. New York: Oxford University Press.

Stacey, R., Griffin, D., & Shaw, P. (2000). Complexity and Management: Fad or Radical Challenge to Systems Thinking. New York: Routledge.

Stamps, J. & Lipnack, J. (2004). Appreciative Inquiry in the Age of the Network. Constructive Discourse and Human Organization. Advances in Appreciative Inquiry, vol. 1. Bingley, UK: Emerald. pp. 29–55.

Taylor, F.W. (1911). Scientific Management. New York: Harper

Tönnies, F. (1887). Community and Society (trans. C.P. Loomis). New York: Harper.

Touraine, A. (1974). The Post-industrial Society, Tomorrow’s Social History: Classes, Conflicts and Culture in the Programmed Society (trans. L.F.X. Mayhew). London: Wildwood House.

Van der Haar, D. & Hosking, D.M. (2004). Evaluating appreciative inquiry: a relational constructionist perspective. Human Relations, 57(8), 1017.

Watkins, J. & Mohr, B. (2001). Appreciative Inquiry: Change at the Speed of Imagination. San Francisco: Jossey-Bass.

Weick, K. E. (1979). The Social Psychology of Organizing. New York: Addison-Wesley.

Weick, K.E., & Quinn, R.E. (1999a). Organizational change and development. Annual Review of Psychology, 50(1), 361–386.

Weick, K.E. & Quinn, R.E. (1999b). Organizational change and development. Annual Review of Psychology, 50(1), 361–386.

Whitney, D., Trosten-Bloom, A., & Cooperrider, D. (2010). The Power of Appreciative Inquiry: A Practical Guide to Positive Change. San Francisco: Berrett-Koehler.

Wright, T.A. (2003). Positive organizational behavior: an idea whose time has truly come. Journal of Organizational Behavior, 24(4), 437–442.





14


Participation and Organizational Commitment during Change: From Utopist to Realist Perspectives


Rune Lines and Marcus Selart





14.1 Introduction


Employee commitment and participation in organizational decision-making and problem-solving are two of the more heavily-researched areas in organizational psychology and organizational behavior. Hence, a considerable research-based stock of knowledge has been accumulated over the past 70–80 years. This research has examined antecedents to commitment and participation, and explored different definitions of the two constructs. Based upon thse data, a comprehensive array of purported outcomes of the two constructs has been proposed, some of which has also been supported empirically. Theoretical and empirical contributions to the understanding of these two phenomena are summarized in several qualitative as well as quantitative review articles, meta-analyses, and books (Cotton et al., 1988; Glew et al., 1995; Mathieu & Zajac, 1990; Wagner & Gooding, 1987).

Less, however, is known about commitment and participation as they relate to ­organizational change. Although some of the research on commitment and participation has been done using data from organizations planning, undergoing, or digesting change, this body of knowledge is much narrower and thinner in terms of theories used for ­informing the research and empirical findings. Against this background, the purpose of the present chapter is to take stock of the research-based knowledge on participation and commitment prior to, during, and after organizational change. Based on this review, we identify gaps between the general literature on participation and commitment on the one hand, and the more applied organizational-change research on the other, and suggest areas for new research.

“Organizational change” is a somewhat ambiguous term (see Chapter 1), and it is often difficult to decide when an organization is in a change rather than an equilibrium stage. The ambiguous nature of much organizational change challenges the need for a specific literature on organizational change, especially when the focus is on human behavior ­during change. Partly for this reason, in Section 14.3 and 14.5 we review key themes and findings from the general literature on participation. These sections provide a foundation for ­assessing the more applied research on commitment and participation in change settings and for discussing relationships between participation and commitment during change. In Sections 14.4 and 14.6, research on participation and commitment in explicit-change ­settings is reviewed and discussed.

In Section 14.7, we present our views on important areas for future research in the intersection between commitment, participation, and change. This section is partly based on a selective highlighting of gaps between the general literatures on commitment and participation and the more applied literature on organizational change. However, we also try to point out the implications of some macro-level changes in the context surrounding these phenomena.





14.2 Participation and Organizational Commitment


Participation has been related to organizational commitment in several ways. Probably the most investigated issue is how different forms of participation influences levels of organizational commitment under varying contexts (see Section 14.1). Generally, the main-effect relationship has been hypothesized to be a positive one, a relationship that has been ­supported by the findings from a number of empirical studies. Similarly, studies have explored and found evidence of a positive relationship between organizational ­commitment and antecedents reflecting relatively higher levels of participation, including high-involvement work processes and organizational commitment (e.g. Butts et al., 2009); team empowerment (Kirkman & Rosen, 1999), employee participation in ­decision-making (Han et al., 2009), and profit-sharing plans (Bayo-Moriones & Larranza-Kintana, 2009).

The strength of the relationship between participation and organizational commitment is dependent on many contextual variables, such as the presence or absence of other ­participation-related features (Bayo-Moriones & Larranza-Kintana, 2009). From a longitudinal study of work practices in Spain, Bayo-Moriones & Larranza-Kintana (2009) found that the positive relationship between profit-sharing plans and affective commitment to the organization is negatively moderated by the use of participation in decision-making at the job level; that is, the effect of profit-sharing plans on commitment was weaker in cases where participation was used. This finding indicates that different types of participation can be seen as substitutes for influencing organizational commitment. In the same study, it was hypothesized and found that firm size negatively moderated the positive relationship between profit-sharing and affective commitment. The presumed reason for this is that as firm size increases, the contribution of each individual employee is reduced, leading to lower effects of social-exchange mechanisms.

Other moderators of the participation–commitment link that have been explored are depth and breadth of the participation (e.g. Cox et al., 2009), degree of conflict with supervisors (Janssen, 2004), organizational tenure, perceived organizational support (Butts et al., 2009) and organizational culture. For example, Smeenk et al. (2006) ­reported that academic employees in two faculties with different cultures (hegemonist versus ­separatist) responded differently to a given set of HR practices, including the level of autonomy. Huang et al. (2006) reported that the positive link between participative ­leadership and organizational commitment was only present for short-tenure employees. Butts et al. (2009) found that the participation–organizational commitment link was strongest for employees who held higher levels of perceived organizational support.

In addition to the issues addressed above, some research has also explored the ­possibility that organizational commitment acts as a determinant of willingness to participate, as reflected in suggestions made for improvement, the likelihood of speaking up or remaining silent, silence during issues resulting in a decision, and active participation in decision processes, including organizational-change processes. For example, Malewicki (2005) found that employees’ levels of normative commitment were positively related to participation.





14.3 Employee Participation in Organizational Processes


“Participation” is a technical term that is used in organizational research to capture arrangements whereby organizations try to involve a broader array of members in their decision-making and problem-solving processes. Hence, the need for and interest in ­participation is a byproduct of the traditional division of labor that is found in vertically- and horizontally-differentiated organizations. Most conceptualizations of participation are concerned with situations in which members higher in a hierarchy—typically managers—grant decision influence to those lower in the hierarchy. In this vein, participation has been defined as “a conscious and intended effort by individuals at a higher level in an ­organization to provide extra-role or role-expanding opportunities for individuals or groups at a lower level in the organization to have a greater voice in one or more areas of organizational performance” (Glew et al., 1995, p. 402). While this definition captures the top-down perspective used in much of the research on participation in organizations to date, it is important to stress that participation sometimes entails the involvement of members higher in the organizational hierarchy, initiated by members located at lower levels, in order to further the latter’s agenda. One example of such behavior is issue-selling, where individuals at lower levels involve managers in order to build support for their agendas (e.g. Dutton et al., 2001). Increasingly, organizations are composed of semi-autonomous units at the same hierarchical level, whose decisions and activities are not easily controlled by managers at higher levels, due to knowledge asymmetries. This creates the need for a coordination and combination of specialized knowledge in decision-making and problem-solving among these units (e.g. Anand et al., 2007). One way to achieve this coordination and combination is through lateral collaboration, where initiative-takers in one unit actively involve persons from other units in order to optimize problem-solving and ­minimize unforeseen systemic effects that might create implementation problems.

The academic literature on participation is composed of two broad streams of writing: the industrial-relations literature, which focuses on collective bargaining and the macro-organization, functioning, and outcomes of unionized activity on the one hand (e.g. ­Ackers, 2010; Kaufman, 2008), and the more micro-oriented management, HR, and organizational behavior literatures on the other (e.g. Argyris, 1998; Glew et al., 1995). One key difference between the two is that the micro-literature is primarily concerned with employee participation in individual organizations or organizational subunits, such as work teams, while the macro-literature is more concerned with participation in ­populations of organizations or the economy as a whole. The core topics that are ­addressed in the two streams are interrelated in many important ways, but here we limit our focus to the micro-literature, because it covers issues that are more relevant for understanding change at the levels of individual organizations and parts thereof.

The micro-oriented literature on participation in individual organizations can be divided into three substreams: (1) a utopist stream, stressing the often mutual benefits of participation to employees and organizations; (2) a critical—or dystopian—stream, concerned with the costs of participation to the two parties, and sometimes beyond; and (3) a more balanced, realist stream, attempting to establish under what circumstances and in what form participation is effective for employees and organizations (see Ackers, 2010, for a similar organization of the industrial-relations literature on employee participation). In reality, most contributors probably belong to the realist position, but from time to time take more-radical positions in order to explore certain facets of this complex phenomenon. This micro-stream of research on participation in organizations is theoretically highly eclectic and it is still hard to identify a small number of theoretical perspectives around which research converges. This is probably partly due to the complexity of the subject matter. The complexity is a reflection of the large and heterogeneous set of dependent variables that is explored in participation research, the dual focus on antecedents and ­consequences with limited conceptual and theoretical overlap (different theories are required to explain the presence versus the outcomes of participation), and the fact that participation is often part of larger organizational initiatives, simultaneously involving other elements such as new incentive systems, technologies, and changes in strategy or operating philosophy.

On average, participation is positively related to employee and organizational outcomes of interest, but the strength of this relationship—as expected—depends on many known moderating variables. It is likely that more moderators will be identified in the future, some of which will reflect broad local and global changes in organizations and their ­environments. Higher-order interactions are probably also present for many relevant ­phenomena, but these have not been explored extensively. It is also remarkable that very few contributions report negative consequences from the many forms of participation that have been ­implemented and evaluated in a wide variety of organizational and cultural ­settings.





14.3.1 Determinants of participation


Another important stream of participation research has examined determinants of participation. This research has focused on two main issues: the inclinations of leaders to adopt a participative style over more centralized, authoritarian leadership styles, and the willingness of employees to engage in participative processes and actually choose involvement when invited to by others in the organization (usually, but not exclusively, by higher-ranking managers). One oft-cited finding from this research, reported in Neuman (1989), indicates that roughly 67% of the workforce chooses not to participate when receiving such invitations, indicating that willingness to participate may best be regarded as a scarce and potentially valuable resource and that a considerable leadership challenge is to motivate employees to participate in order to achieve organizational or mutual gains. Earlier writings on the willingness-to-participate issue tended to focus on cognitive or knowledge-related explanations (e.g. Cotton et al., 1988). The general idea was that organizations need to prepare their employees to become more involved in a wider spectrum of organizational activities. Thinking has now shifted towards a focus on participation—including the right to voice opinions on issues—as a specific form of extra-role behavior, possibly associated with some degree of personal risk (e.g. Van Dyne & LePine, 1998). Recent research on voice in organizations adds important but only incomplete insights concerning the factors that may influence employees’ willingness to provide thoughts and ideas about critical work processes and other issues pertinent to organizational functioning (e.g. Detert & Burris, 2007; Crant et al., 2011; LePine & Van Dyne, 2001; Tangirala & Ramanumjam, 2008).





14.4 Research on Participation in Explicit-Change Settings


It turns out that there is no clear way of delineating exactly which specific research ­articles belong to a “participation in organizational change” category versus those that should be classified into a more general “participation in organizations” category. The two ­categories are overlapping because most research on participation is to an important degree related to organizational change. Research on participation is concerned with the involvement of people in something and with the effects of involvement. That “something” is usually a decision process, broadly defined so as to include the implementation and control phases of the overall decision-related activities. For example, employees participate in suggesting new ways of working, with the intention that their suggestions will lead to change in the organization’s work processes. Hence, intended change is part of the phenomenon that is subsumed under the “participation” heading. This raises again the important question of to what degree and in what respects contexts of change are different from contexts of relative stability, in terms that are important to our understanding of participation-related phenomena. Fundamentally, this is a question about generalizability; that is, to what extent can we expect theory and empirical ­findings from the general research on ­participation to carry over to organizations that are planning, executing, or evaluating and learning from change? As we showed in Section 14.2, organizational change is in itself a highly heterogeneous category, containing contexts that differ in terms of their comprehensiveness, compatibility with organizational culture, the location of initiation of the initiative, and so on. We’ll come back to this issue in Section 14.6, where we discuss important avenues for new research on participation during organizational change. For the present, our take is to review research on participation during organizational change, although we acknowledge the arbitrariness of this approach.

The research on participation during organizational change partly mirrors the more general research on organizational change in terms of conceptualization of participation and its antecedents, consequences, and underlying theoretical perspectives. However, it is a narrower research stream as far as the number of publications and the breadth of issues under investigation are concerned. Nevertheless, some new topics have been investigated that are specific to the change context and that are derived from organizational-change theory. In this sense, it both draws on and contributes back to the more general literature on participation. These new topics are mostly derived from the research agenda found in the organizational-change field and typically relate to recurring problems experienced in organizations undergoing change. Among the most important issues that have been linked to participation in this research are resistance and cynicism towards change (e.g. Abraham, 2000; Piderit, 2001), commitment to change, and employee sense-making and its ­implications for change-related attitudes and behaviors.

Consistent with the general literature on participation, research in change settings has examined how different degrees and forms of participation impact attitudes and behaviors towards the products of the change process to which influence opportunities for ­stakeholders were granted or withheld. In addition, some research has explored ­moderators of the participation–outcome links (Holman et al., 2009; Jimmieson et al.; 2008; Lines, 2004; Sagie & Koslowski, 1994; Sverke et al., 2008; Van Knippenberg et al., 2006). Research on change-specific outcomes has generally found that participation is associated with lower levels of resistance to change (e.g. Hideg et al., 2011; van Dam et al., 2008; Wanberg & Banas, 2000), cynicism towards change (e.g. Brown & Cregan, 2008), and higher levels of commitment to change (Neubert & Cady, 2001). Participation has also been shown to affect sense-making during change, for example by producing belief change and generally fostering a better understanding of change (Basinger & Peterson, 2008; Stensaker et al., 2008).

Our review of the literature on participation during change indicates that much more is known about the forms and consequences of participation than about its antecedents. One likely reason for this imbalance is that participation has traditionally been seen as a benefit that managers may or may not grant their employees. Hence, the possibility that employees may be indifferent to, reluctant about, or opposed to increased involvement in work processes—including change—has not received much attention. However, the research evidence shows that individual employees react differently to participation. For example, they seem to react more positively when involved in tactical decision processes than in strategic decision processes, and persons with an internal locus of control perform better under participation than persons with an external locus of control (Kren, 1992). Also, there is direct evidence that employees react differently to various efforts to increase participation, such as empowerment programs. In fact, Manyard et al. (2007) provide ­evidence that employees may actually resist organizations’ efforts to implement more ­involvement-based processes.

Participation can partly be seen as voluntary behavior in organizations. Often, employees can decide whether or not to participate when invited to do so. If forced to participate, the level of effort put into a process can, to a certain degree, be regulated by the employees to match their levels of commitment and motivation (Neuman, 1989). Because participation requires effort from employees, researchers have wondered whether those more committed to the organization are more likely to volunteer in participative processes than those who are less committed. Some research has also examined this hypothesized relationship empirically. For example, Cohen & Lilach (2011) recently reported that more organizationally-committed Israeli teachers were more likely to participate in an optional change in their educational system than those who were less committed.

While theories of participation during change often posit that positive attitudes towards change and change-required behaviors result from employee participation in the change process, others have proposed that attitudes towards organizational change may form early in the change process based on rumors, observations of nonroutine behaviors among managers, visits from external consultants, and prior experiences of change initiatives. It has also been argued that social construction of a change and its consequences is mediated by peer discussions and social information-processing. Through these processes, assumptions and attitudes that are transferred among employees play important roles in the formation of attitudes towards change (Lines, 2005). Consistent with this view, Antoni (2004) found that employees’ willingness to participate and their actual participation in a reengineering project were positively associated with their attitude towards change and their perception of supervisory support.





14.5 Employee Commitment in Organizational Processes


In an organizational context, commitment can be seen as an employee’s attachment to the entire organization, an organizational subunit, a supervisor, or even a change program (Ford et al., 2003; Herscovitch & Meyer, 2002). There are many reasons why employee commitment to the entire organization in particular has been the scope of much ongoing research (Reichers, 1985; Wright & Bonnett, 2002). This kind of commitment has strong relationships with such important dimensions as job performance, organizational citizenship behavior (OCB), willingness to share knowledge, absenteeism, tardiness, and turnover (e.g. Becker et al., 1996; Fedor et al., 2006; Maertz et al., 2002; Randall et al., 1990). More specifically, organizational commitment has been found to be negatively related to turnover (Cohen, 1993) and positively related to prosocial behavior (O’Reilly & Chatman, 1986), job satisfaction (Bateman & Stasser, 1984), motivation (Mowday et al., 1979), and attendance (Mathieu & Zajac, 1990). In general, employee ­commitment has therefore been regarded as a positive factor for organizations. For this reason, there have been many attempts to gain a fuller understanding of the antecedents of commitment, as well as the consequences (Meyer et al., 2002).

Commitment is to a large extent connected to a high level of focus and energy. If employees commit, orally or in writing, to an idea or a goal, they are more likely to achieve that idea or goal (Cialdini, 2001). The rationale for this relationship is that employees have established the idea or goal as being congruent with their self-image and, therefore, view the two as being cognitively consistent (Festinger, 1957). Even if the original incentive or motivation is removed after they have agreed, they will continue to honor the agreement. From this point of view, a focus on improving commitment by management can be ­regarded as a very powerful method for improving employee participation (Cialdini, 2001).





14.6 Research on Commitment in Explicit-Change Settings


A considerable number of studies have now hypothesized and found links between ­organizational commitment and employee responses to change. In their survey of full-time employees from four US companies undergoing change, Madsen et al. (2005) found that organizational commitment was positively related to employee readiness for change. In this study, the involvement dimension of commitment exhibited the strongest relationship with readiness for change. In her study of determinants of civic virtue and turnover ­intentions in a recently-acquired Greek restaurant change, Bellou (2008) found a positive relationship between employees’ levels of organizational commitment and civic virtue and a negative relationship between organizational commitment and turnover intentions. She further reported that the strength of the relationship between organizational commitment and civic virtue was positively moderated by the employees’ levels of coping with change. In a longitudinal study using data from 267 organizations undergoing downsizing processes, Trevor & Nyberg (2008) found a negative relationship between organizational commitment and turnover intentions. In this study, variations in levels of organizational commitment were explained by the perceived levels of procedural justice observed during the downsizing. Based on these and other studies (e.g. Eby et al., 2000; Iverson, 1996), it can be concluded that organizational commitment in general has a positive impact on how employees react to change. A relatively recent meta-analysis of the relationship between organizational commitment and behaviors supporting one’s job role also supports this conclusion (Harrison et al., 2006). The research evidence for this conclusion is, however, rather new, as indicated by a comment made by Herscovitch & Mayer (2002) less than 10 years ago: “Despite its presumed importance, however, little attention has been paid to the definition and measurement of commitment within a change context, and there is virtually no evidence to substantiate the claims made about its effects” (p. 474).

There are many definitions of commitment to change but perhaps the most well-known and well-established one was that presented by Herscovitch & Meyer (2002): “a mindset that binds an individual to a course of action deemed necessary for the successful ­implementation of a change initiative” (p. 475). Commitment to change is thus one of the most important factors involved in employee support for change initiatives, since it ­connects employees with organizational goals and change (Jaros, 2010). In order for ­organizations to not just survive but prosper, they must be knowledgeable about how to implement organizational changes that will be appreciated by their employees (Armenakis & Harris, 2009). Research suggests that organizational commitment is the outcome of general attitudes towards change, change acceptance, and positive views about change (Judge et al., 1999; Wanberg & Banas, 2000). It has been suggested by Coatsee (1999) that the ability of commitment to promote and support change is related to: (1) employee abilities regarding change; (2) what is communicated about change; (3) employee decision-making authority; (4) rewards and recognition for participating in the change effort; and (5) employee understanding of the further future. In addition, motivational processes that underlie employee reactions to change initiatives seem to be important for the ­functioning of commitment to change (Armenakis & Harris, 2009).

According to Herscovitch & Meyer (2002), there are three areas of employee commitment that have been neglected in previous research: (1) affective commitment, which is a desire to provide support for the change based on its inherent benefits (identification); (2) normative commitment, which constitutes a sense of obligation to provide support for the change (reciprocity); and (3) continuance commitment, which manifests a recognition that there are costs associated with failure to provide support for the change (investment). Herscovitch & Meyer (2002) state that affective and normative commitment is associated with higher levels of support among employees than is continuance commitment. They also argue that commitment to a change is a better predictor for behavioral support among employees than organizational commitment. In a recent review, Jaros (2010) argues that current and future research must take into account and clarify this important ­dimensionality of change commitment.

In order to be able to understand the role of employee commitment to change, it would be wise to look at the behavior of managers in the change process. There are many reasons for this. Managers might be regarded as the primary change agents in most organizations. The decisions managers make and their role-modeling behaviors shape the organization’s change culture. For instance, management decisions related to structural change, cultural factors, and human-resource policies have an impact on the innovation climate in ­organizations. Management decisions related to other policies and practices are imperative for organizational learning and for adaptation to changing environmental factors (Beer & Noria, 2000; Beer et al., 1990; Schein, 1992). Thus, the degree of management ­commitment to change is important to employees, in terms of how they experience their working lives, and to the organization, in terms of how it achieves desirable organizational outcomes and overcomes resistance to change (Jaros, 2010; Oreg, 2003).

For these reasons, those managers who are identified as the primary proponents and sponsors of a change initiative must provide the attention and endorsement that signal commitment in order to achieve a successful change outcome. However, organizational change initiatives often prove to be less than fully successful (Jaros, 2010). A fact of life is that the initial enthusiasm and support for a major change among employees deteriorate as problems and costs begin to become apparent. When this happens, employees look to their managers for signs of continued commitment to the change objectives. Demonstrating commitment involves more than just talking about the importance of the change. Managers must also participate in activities related to the change, such as attending special meetings or ceremonies relevant to the change effort. This has a clear symbolic meaning for the employees, indicating that the change must be important (Pfeffer & Sutton, 2006; Podsakoff et al., 2000; Yukl, 2006).

Major organizational changes cause stress among employees due to increased work targets, threats of job losses, changes in job holders’ responsibilities/authorities, and shifts in the balance of power (McHugh & Brennan, 1994). These role stressors may affect employee commitment to change. Negative attitudes towards change have been observed to be related to lower job satisfaction and commitment (Schweiger & DeNisi, 1991). How can an organization and its managers expect commitment to a change initiative from employees when they are experiencing job insecurity and job stress? In order to overcome these obstacles, managers must provide change-related communication demonstrating their own commitment (Johnson et al., 1996). Such communication can be used to: (1) reduce resistance; (2) minimize uncertainty; and (3) gain involvement and commitment as the change progresses. It must be noted that role conflicts and role ambiguity also can be reduced by providing timely feedback to employees regarding changes.

In addition to providing a positive role model for employees, managers can demonstrate commitment by using an empowering leadership style. An empowering style includes behaviors that share power with employees and has been demonstrated to positively influence performance (Vecchio et al., 2010). This kind of leadership provides guidance on how to enhance effectiveness through practices such as providing increased autonomy and responsibility to employees (Zhang & Bartol, 2010). However, there is evidence that an empowering leadership style has limitations both in change settings characterized by urgency and crisis and for inexperienced employees (Sims et al., 2009). Thus, this kind of leadership depends on certain situational conditions. Furthermore, Vecchio et al. (2010) report that the mediating mechanisms are not well specified. Other research has reported partial rather than full mediation (Kirkman & Rosen, 1999; Srivastava et al., 2006).





14.7 Discussion and Directions for Further Research


14.7.1 From utopist to realist frameworks


Research on organizational change has been criticized for not adequately representing the context in which change takes place (e.g. Feldman, 1986; Howards-Grenville, 2005; Pettigrew, 1987). This critique seems relevant to the issue of participation during change. As we have shown, general theories of participation have identified a large number of ­contingencies that might moderate the strength of any positive relationship between participation and outcomes, including organizational commitment. In a similar vein, second-generation research on the outcomes of organizational commitment often focuses in on contextual variables that might affect the direct relationship between commitment and outcomes of interest. At times these contingencies may create strong interactions; that is, situations where relationships actually shift from positive to negative.

From our review, it seems likely that the scale and scope of change—the extent to which change is affecting these core aspects of the organization—are likely to interact with both commitment and participation. From the research on commitment, it seems plausible to conclude that the effects of commitment are dependent on the size of change. This is because the requirements for cognitive and behavioral adjustment and the emotional strain experienced by employees are likely to co-vary with change size. Evolutionary change, also called fine-tuning, often takes place within a fixed set of organizational ­features and does not challenge organizational norms, values, or the prevailing power structure to any large degree. Hence the strain on employees and the need for high levels of commitment to match this strain are less than in times of more profound and ­comprehensive change. Also, it seems that the impact of change on organizational ­commitment might be affected by the magnitude of change. As we have shown, organizational commitment is often the result of a social-exchange process by which employees monitor how they are treated by the organization and its leaders, particularly regarding issues that are relevant to their personal values. There are some indications that the ­organizational commitment of low-tenure employees is particularly volatile and is affected by single episodes such as an organizational change. Consistent with this, research by ­Fedor et al. (2006) seems to indicate that organizational commitment is particularly likely to be affected when a change has impact in terms of favorableness, when the extent of the change is large, and when the change implies changes in recipients’ work conditions. The authors also found evidence of interactions among these facets of change.

However, organizations undergoing radical change may find that their most-committed employees are those who react most negatively to the change. Organizational ­commitment partly explains the psychological attachment of an individual to an organization. One important driver of this attachment is the level of congruence between the organization’s values and the personal values of the focal employee (Meyer et al., 1998). Personal values are much less malleable than is often assumed in the normative literature on organizational and cultural change. They seem to be established sometime in early adulthood, and often undergo only minor adjustments in the subsequent periods of an individual’s life (e.g. Hitlin & Piliavin, 2004). Hence, when organizations attempt to change values and norms as part of a radical change, an incongruence with employee values occurs. This process can lead to identity problems and a corresponding reduction in commitment among those who felt a high level of identification prior to the change.

Radical change may also interact with employees’ responses to participation during change. Participation is one important antecedent of perceptions of procedural justice in organizations. Issues related to justice, including the degree of fairness associated with processes used during change, have been consistently found to be a focus for sense-making during change and an important criterion for the formation of attitudes towards change. One reason why employees prefer “fair processes” is that such processes are associated with increased levels of decision control (Konovsky, 2000). According to this mechanism, employees respond positively to elements of fair processes (involvement, voice opportunities) because such elements are associated with higher levels of outcome control. When individuals have the right to voice their opinions concerning change or are involved in the change process, their perceptions of being able to control important outcomes of the ­process are higher than they are in top-down change processes flowing from centralized decision-making. As change becomes more radical, the stakes involved for employees increase rapidly and their need to control the outcomes will likely be more strongly felt. Based on this, it is likely that employees’ willingness to participate in change-related activities increases as change becomes more radical. Further, we believe that the positive emotions, cognitions, attitudes, and behaviors that are often associated with participative processes will be more pronounced during radical compared to ­evolutionary change.

We also conclude that the interrelationships between participation and commitment have not been sufficiently explored up to this point. This seems to be particularly true for the specialized research on organizational change. A positive main effect of participation on commitment is rather well established as an average outcome across studies and organizational changes. In addition, there is strong theoretical support and indirect, but not direct, empirical evidence for a positive main effect of commitment on willingness to participate (see Section 14.8). But more-complex relationships between organizational commitment and participation during change are also likely to be present. First, it seems likely that levels of commitment interact positively with any relationship between participation and outcomes of change at the individual as well as the change level of analysis. More-committed individuals are by definition more emotionally attached to their organizations and more willing to exert a high level of effort in performing tasks (Mowday et al., 1979). Hence, it stands to reason that the contribution in terms of information-sharing, problem-solving, constructive talk, and other forms of support by a committed individual will be higher than for low-commitment individuals even in cases where both spend equal amounts of time participating in change-related work. In a similar vein, we expect ­participation to interact positively with the often-assumed relationship between organizational commitment and outcomes such as attitudes towards change, change-supportive ­behaviors, and change success.





14.7.2 Implications of a better-educated workforce and the continued transition towards knowledge industries


Among the broad global trends with implications for research and practice in participation and organizational commitment is the increased level of formal education that is observed throughout the world. Education transforms people in terms of both the knowledge they and their value systems, which in turn determine what they regard as important in their lives (Locke et al., 2001; Shapira & Griffith, 1990). Higher education seems to increase the importance of values such as the need for growth, autonomy, and democracy. These affect how people respond to organizational arrangements that allowi for more or less involvement in and influence on decision-making and problem-solving. Based on these relationships, it seems likely that the demand for higher levels of participation will ­continue to rise in the future.

This development is only partly matched by trends in organization structure and ­leadership. It is often observed that when organizations move towards centralization (and away from decentralization)—marked by increased control, standardization, and ­command-and-control leadership—employees experience a loss of a feeling of empowerment and therefore become less interested in participation (Jacobides & Croson, 2001). In the same vein, when organizational leaders are faced with the trade-offs between satisfying stockholders and satisfying (knowledge) workers, they tend to listen more closely to ­members of the former group.

Based on these two concerns, we predict that issues related to participation will become more, rather than less, important in coming years. There is already research to indicate that employees feel that levels of participation are too low (Bruhn et al., 2001). Ever more specialized, well-educated, and knowledgeable employees shift the balance of the power–dependence relationship from owners/managers to employees as the ­former become more dependent on the latter to achieve their goals. One consequence of this is that employee involvement is increasingly becoming a scarce performance-­driving resource that should be allocated to uses in which its marginal productivity is ­maximized.

This implies that organizations must economize on the use of the time and energy of their highly-skilled personnel and that involvement has a high alternative cost. High-performers, who are often also important informal leaders, partake in many ­performance-driving processes in an organization. By involving such employees in change, important resources are drawn away from areas such as product development, sales, and other forms of innovation. This calls for selective involvement based on a set of criteria that define when the economic effect of involvement is at its highest. From both an employee and a managerial perspective, this is likely to be when organizational changes have the largest potential consequences for the attainment of professional values by knowledge workers. Due to self-allocation into educational and socialization programs, the members of a given profession hold strong professional values (Akerlof & Kranton, 2002). Such values tend to differ considerably between professions (e.g. Shapira & Griffith, 1990). When such professional values are furthered by a change, responses to the change are positive; when they are threatened, responses will be negative. It is possible that responses to participation will be at their most positive when involvement concerns decisions with a high impact on professional values, both because the issues are personally relevant and because participation is associated with outcome control. When changes do not have such an impact, it is likely that responses will be neutral or even negative. However, these interactions need to be explored empirically in future research.

The link between change and professional values is likely to be an important issue in organizational sense-making during change, but has up to till now been subjected to little research. Across professions, there is some evidence that highly-educated employees differ from the less-educated in their focus on internal versus external work facets. Specifically, they seem to be less concerned with pay and job security, but put relatively more emphasis on intrinsic job facets such as interesting tasks, a sense of achievement, and chances for promotion (Warr, 2008). Hence, it seems that changes that have effects on job content are of particular importance to highly-educated ­personnel and that participation in such changes is likely to produce positive reactions in this demographic group.

To some extent, perceptions of such links can be influenced by managerial activities ­during change, including communication activities. In particular, highly-trusted change agents can probably influence how employees perceive such links as part of their activities, allowing them to develop justifications for change and to create perceived readiness for change early in the change process. The efficacy of managerial activities in creating or downplaying such links warrants further research, especially in organizations with highly-educated, self-confident employees. It also seems relevant to examine how the success of such attempts feeds back to post-change levels of trust and cynicism towards change, ­organizations, and individual managers.





14.7.3 Research on ability and motivation to participate


This review has shown that we presently know more about the forms and effects of ­participation than about its antecedents. This conclusion seems to hold for the general literature on participation in organizations, as well as for the more specialized literature on participation during change. We think that a better understanding of the determinants of participation is required from both an employee and a managerial/organizational perspective. From an employee perspective, it is crucial to know more about who is willing to be more involved, when, and in what processes, in order to improve the quality of work life through increased or decreased levels of participation. Increasing participation in situations where the present level is perceived as adequate might easily lead to a reduction in quality of (work) life because it will require levels of effort, competence, and job involvement that may not present in members of the organization. From an organizational ­perspective, the positive outcomes for knowledge-sharing, charge-taking, levels of effort, and financial performance are mostly mediated by positive employee responses to increased participation. Hence, from this perspective too, an intelligent use of participation must build on a thorough understanding of employees’ ability and motivation to participate in organizational processes.

Research on issue-selling in organizations is relevant to understanding how individual competencies for effective participation develop over time through practice and reflection. Issue-selling is the process by which individuals or groups attempt to get their particular concerns included in the organizational agenda. It is related to the decision control path linking participation to positive outcomes. For example, Howard-Grenville (2007) shows how issue-sellers gradually develop knowledge about the key schemas of issue recipients and learn how to tie their own issues into them. This finding mirrors an issue that is often raised in comments on implementing participation: that participation has to be learned in some way, and that employees with work experience exclusively from organizations ­characterized by centralized decision-making are ill prepared for suddenly taking part in new areas of decision-making (e.g. Cotton et al., 1991).

Organizational voice—that is, employees’ tendency to actually communicate their ­opinions when given the opportunity—is often included as a form of participation in ­organizations. Research on organizational voice has identified conditions under which employees choose to participate by raising their concerns over decision issues versus when they remain silent on such issues even when their views are solicited by change agents. Studying employees’ responses to leadership behaviors in a restaurant chain, Detert & Burris (2007) provide evidence that managers who succeed at providing psychological safety to subordinates are rewarded with employees who exhibit a stronger tendency to contribute to the organization by voicing their opinions. Observed levels of psychological safety, in turn, are positively associated with a manager’s degree of openness vis-à-vis their subordinates (see also Dutton et al., 1997; Edmondson, 2003). The willingness of members to provide thoughts and ideas about critical work processes is important to a firm’s dynamic competitive position and characterizes successful learning (Edmondson, 1999).

We have argued that employee participation can fruitfully be seen as a form of voluntary behavior in organizations. Even in cases where employees are forced to participate, the effort put into this work is hard to observe. This may be because the requirement to ­participate is usually not included in formal work descriptions and is therefore largely a matter of the individual employee’s discretion. Hence, a better understanding of employees’ willingness to participate is crucial for efficient use of this approach to change.

Perhaps the most developed body of theoretical and empirical knowledge addressing voluntary behaviors in organizations comes from research on OCB. This research has identified a comprehensive set of antecedents, forms, and outcomes of different types of voluntary behavior, some of which overlap with behaviors normally subsumed under the concepts of participation, employee involvement, and empowerment. For example, ­organizational participation, defined as attending nonrequired meetings and sharing informed opinions and new ideas with others, is explicitly considered to be a reflection of organizational civic virtue (Graham, 1991). However, so far this body of knowledge is only integrated to a small degree with participation research and practice. Consistent with our view of evolutionary change, many of the findings from this research can probably be directly generalized to evolutionary-change settings; that is, predictors of OCB are also likely to predict willingness to participate during evolutionary change when employee stakes are relatively low. Several comprehensive reviews of this literature have been ­published (Chang et al., 2007; Podsakoff et al., 2000; Shweta & Jha, 2009). In this ­section we only illustrate how these findings can be used to inform researchers and ­practitioners concerned with employee willingness to participate during change.

One striking finding from this research is that different forms of OCB are strongly related to several important employee work attitudes, including organizational ­commitment, job satisfaction, and perception of fairness (e.g. Podsakoff et al., 2000, p. 527). These findings seem to predict that employees’ willingness to participate in change is a reflection of their broader relationship with their organization. Employees who are satisfied with how they have experienced their work and the organization in the past are more likely to participate constructively during change than less-satisfied employees. Hence, it seems that willingness to participate and the resulting capacity to change are largely built up in the periods prior to any change episode and that organizations are more or less prepared for the successful involvement of their employees depending on their exchange history prior to change. As these attitudes vary within any organization, another implication seems to be that the willingness to participate is likely to vary. As job satisfaction and commitment may be more easily observable than willingness to participate, these relationships can be used to form work teams during change.

Another consistent finding is that leadership behaviors and trust in leadership seem to be important determinants of OCB (Podsakoff et al., 2000). In particular, positive ­relationships have been found between transformational leadership behaviors, the formulation of a vision, the provision of clear guidelines for what should be done and achieved, high performance expectations, and OCB. This implies that leadership and participation are much more interconnected than is reflected in the literature on participation during change, and that differences in leader–member histories are likely to affect willingness to participate and the outcomes of participation.





14.7.4 Leadership, trust in leadership, and participation during change


The degree and form of participation are often presented to leaders as choices that are disconnected from other aspects of leadership style and leader–member relationships. This is not likely to be true, as many facets of leadership potentially interact with participation in the production of outcomes, including organizational commitment. Many commentators on participation have pointed to the close connection between leadership and ­participation. In the leadership literature, participation is often portrayed as an important element of leadership style. For example, transformational leaders combine top-down inspirational appeals with behaviors that involve their subordinates (Bass, 1985). Newer leadership concepts, such as authentic leadership (Avolio & Gardner, 2005) and servant leadership (Graham, 1991), increasingly reflect leadership styles in which decision authority is divided more equally between leaders and subordinates. Participation is sometimes ­presented as an influence tactic used by leaders that is tied to individual configurations of power bases. In the general literature on participation and organizational commitment, the interaction between leadership and participation has been explored to a certain degree, but little research from the field of organizational change has examined this. Specifically, we conclude that employee trust in leadership (Kramer, 1999) may operate as a substitute for participation and that this link may become more important as organizations are increasingly careful about how they deploy their highly-skilled workforce. Further, it is possible that highly-educated employees will react positively to reductions in participation in some processes, provided that they hold high levels of trust in those that make such centralized decisions.

It has previously been found that organizational change constitutes an important event in which trust in leadership is built or destroyed. Specifically, Lines et al. (2007) ­empirically showed that post-change trust in leadership is related to how the change process is ­designed and to the consequences of change for change-recipient jobs. In this study, ­participation during change was positively related to post-change trust in leadership.

However, participation may not always lead to increased levels of trust. One important side effect of participative processes is the creation of organizational arenas in which trust-relevant behaviors can be observed and other trust-relevant information, such as cues for judging levels of competence and benevolence, can be transmitted to participants. When a leader collaborates with subordinates in a participative process, it is more difficult to hide the true motives behind change, and the leader’s knowledge about the change becomes more visible than it would be in a centralized process. Hence, we believe that the link ­between participation and trust in leadership is contingent on a leader’s level of ­competence and that only authentic leaders (Avolio & Gardner, 2005) will observe a positive effect from participation.





14.7.5 Commitment to change and organizational creativity


In many ways, the essence of successful creative efforts might be regarded as synonymous with change (West et al., 2004). By definition, creativity requires that people deviate from conventional wisdom and adopt new ways of thinking and doing. It also implies that they enact new patterns and move away from the status quo so that they can develop novel and useful ideas (Shalley et al., 2009; Zhou & George, 2001). Moreover, creativity is connected with the willingness to generate wildly different ideas, which entails the possibility of real mistakes and failure (Miner et al., 2001; George & Zhou, 2001). However, for different reasons, it is difficult for employees to engage in change-related creative behavior (Shalley & Gilson, 2004; Shalley et al., 2009). Typically, they are found to resist it by clinging to routine and habitual behaviors (Ford et al., 2008; Oreg, 2003). The uncertainty, apparent riskiness, and potential for failure that accompany creative efforts are often feared by employees (Jermier et al., 1994; Jones, 2001). It is therefore argued that resistance to change is likely to be detrimental to their creative performance. This is because the resistance is assumed to prevent employees from taking appropriate risks, adopting new ways of thinking, and initiating change. All these behaviors are fundamental requirements of creative performance (Amabile et al., 1996; Ford et al., 2008). However, recent research indicates that the work environment might help mitigate the detrimental effects of employees’ resistance to change (George, 2007). For instance, contextual factors at the group level might moderate individual-level relationships between resistance to change and creative performance (Bliese, 2000; Hirst et al., 2009; Hofmann et al., 2000).

Although most employees tend to resist change to some extent, there are individual differences. Taking this fact into account, Oreg (2003) has developed a scale that measures dispositional resistance to change, and has found that higher levels are associated with resistance to innovation and voluntary change.

In order to improve the work environment so that it facilitates employee acceptance of change, leaders must focus on their communication. A knowledge-based vision requires a strong commitment and is communicated most effectively through social interaction. Such a vision generally includes new thoughts, ideas, phrasings, and actions. These ­provide a foundation for new forms of imagination in the organization. In addition, the vision often communicates to the employees what kinds of value and skill the organization requires (Meyerson & Martin, 1987; Selart & Schei, 2011).

Another way of improving the work environment is to apply empowerment-oriented leadership. Here, both rhetoric and economic resources are used to develop intellectual resources. In organizations where this kind of leadership is practiced, employees are ­characterized by qualities such as self-confidence, inner motivation, and skill. Such ­properties are synonymous with individual creativity in organizations. Whereas a shared vision requires an integrated understanding of the organization’s goals, empowerment allows a lot of fragmentation with respect to how these goals will be achieved. In this form of leadership, it is the management’s task to set goals, secure resources, and then leave the arena (Bennis & Townsend, 1997; Meyerson & Martin, 1987; Selart & Schei, 2011).





14.8 Conclusion


Our reading of the literature on participation and commitment during organizational change has revealed that a substantial body of theoretical and empirical knowledge has been accumulated so far. Large parts of the research evidence closely mirror findings from the more general literature on participation and commitment in organizations. However, research in change settings has expanded the field in terms of contextualizing general theory and showing how change affects and is affected by processes of participation and commitment. Moreover, a set of new, partly change-specific variables has been introduced to the broader field by researchers focusing on change. Some of the themes captured by these variables (e.g. cynicism towards change, resistance towards change) are of substantial importance to a better understanding of organizational functioning in settings with relative stability. Hence, this research indicates a potential for cross-fertilization and better integration of the two streams of research.

This reading has also indicated that our understanding of the roles played by ­participation and commitment during change may be promoted if a more realistic perspective is taken by researchers and practitioners alike. For example, increased levels of participation are associated with some costs, and these have to be compared to the benefits that vary from one change to the next. Also, employee responses to increased participation are more ­variable than is reflected in some of the most optimistic literature. We think that the greatest challenge in this field is to improve our understanding of when participation ­provides net benefits to organizations and employees.





Acknowledgements


The authors gratefully acknowledge the thoughtful comments of Bjarne Espedal, Kjell Grönhaug, Olav A. Kvitastein, H. Skipton Leonard, and Inger Stensaker.





References


Abraham, R. (2000). Organizational cynicism: bases and consequences. Genetic, Social and General Psychology Monographs, 126, 269–292.

Ackers, P. (2010). An industrial relations perspective on employee participation. In A. Wilkinson, P.J. Gollan, M. Marchington, & D. Lewin, editors. The Oxford Handbook of Participation in Organizations. Oxford, UK: Oxford University Press.

Akerlof, G.A. & Kranton, K.E. (2002). Identity and schooling: some lessons for the economics of education. Journal of Economic Literature, 40, 1167–1201.

Amabile, T.M., Conti, R., Coon, H., Lazenby, J., & Herron, M. (1996). Assessing the work ­environment for creativity. Academy of Management Journal, 39, 1154–1184.

Anand, N., Gardner, HK, & Morris, T. (2007). Knowledge-based innovation: emergence and embedding of new practice areas in management consulting teams. Academy of Management Journal, 50, 406–428.

Antoni, C.M. (2004). Research note: a motivational perspective on change processes and outcomes. European Journal of Work and Organizational Psychology, 13, 197–216.

Argyris, C. (1998). Empowerment: the emperor’s new clothes. Harvard Business Review, 76(3), 98–105.

Armenakis, A. & Harris, S. (2009). Reflections: our journey in organizational change research and practice. Journal of Change Management, 9, 127–142.

Ashmos, D.P., Duchon, D., McDaniel, R.R., & Huonker, J.W. (2002). What a mess! Participation as a simple managerial rule to “complexity” organizations. Journal of Management Studies, March, 189–206.

Avolio, B.J. & Gardner, W.L. (2005). Authentic leadership development: getting to the roots of positive forms of leadership. Leadership Quarterly, 16, 315–338.

Basinger, N.W. & Peterson, J.R. (2008). Where you stand depends on where you sit: participation and reactions to change. Nonprofit Management & Leadership, 19(2), 243–257.

Bass, B.M. (1985). Leadership and Performance beyond Expectations. New York: Free Press.

Bateman, T.S. & Stasser, S. (1984). A longitudinal analysis of the antecedents of organizational ­commitment. Academy of Management Review, 27, 95–112.

Bayo-Moriones, A. & Larraza-Kintana, M. (2009). Profit-sharing plans and affective commitment: does the context matter? Human Resource Management, 48(2), 207–226.

Becker, T.E., Billings, R.S., Eveleth, D.M., & Gilbert, N.L. (1996). Foci and bases of employee commitment: implications for job performance. Academy of Management Journal, 39, 464–482.

Beer, M. & Nohria, N. (2000). Cracking the code of change. Harvard Business Review, May–June, 133–141.

Beer, M., Eisenstat, R.A., & Spector, B. (1990). Why change programs don’t produce change. Harvard Business Review, November–December, 158–166.

Bellou, V. (2008). Exploring civic virtue and turnover intention during organizational changes. Journal of Business Research, 61, 778–789.

Bennis, W.G. & Townsend, R. (1997). Reinventing Leadership: Strategies to Empower the Organization. New York: Morrow/Avon.

Benson, G.S. & Lawler, E.E. (2003). Employee involvement: utilization, impacts and future prospects. In D. Holman, T. Wall, C. Clegg, P. Sparrow, & A. Howard, editors. The Essentials of the New Workplace. London, UK: John Wiley & Sons.

Bliese, P.D. (2000). Within-group agreement, non-independence, and reliability: implications for data aggregation and analysis. In K.J. Klein & S.W. Kozlowski, editors. Multilevel Theory, Research and Methods in Organizations: Foundations, Extensions, and New Directions. San Francisco, CA: Jossey-Bass.

Brown, M. & Creegan, C. (2008). Organizational change cynicism: the role of employee ­involvement. Human Resource Management, 47(8), 667–686.

Bruhn, J.G., Zajac, G., & Al-Kazemi, A.A. (2001). Ethical perspectives on employee participation in planned organizational change: a survey of two state public welfare agencies. Public Performance and Management Review, 25, 208–228.

Butts, M.M., Vandenberg, R.J., DeJoy, D.M., Schaffer, B.S., & Wilson, M.G. (2009). Individual reactions to high involvement work processes: investigating the role of empowerment and perceived organizational support. Journal of Occupational Health Psychology, 14(2), 122–136.

Chang, C-H., Johnson, R.E., & Yang, L.-Q. (2007). Emotional strain and organizational citizenship behaviors: a meta-analysis and review. Work&Stress, 21(4), 312–332.

Cialdini, R.B. (2001). Influence: Science and Practice. Boston, MA: Allyn & Bacon.

Coatsee, L. (1999). From resistance to commitment. Public Administrative Quarterly, 23, 204–222.

Cohen, A. (1993). Organizational commitment and turnover: a meta-analysis. Academy of Management Journal, 36, 1140–1157.

Cohen, A. & Lilach, C. (2011). Individual values, organizational commitment, and participation in change: Israeli teachers’ approach to an optional educational reform. Journal of Business and Psychology, 26, 385–396.

Cotton, J.L., Vollrath, D.A., Forggatt, K.L., Lengnick-Hall, M.L., & Jennings, K.R. (1988). Employee participation: diverse forms and different outcomes. Academy of Management Review, 13(1), 8–22.

Cox, A., Marchington, M., & Sutter, J. (2009). Employee involvement and participation: ­developing the concept of embeddedness using WERS2004. International Journal of Human Resource Management, 20(10), 2150–2168.

Crant, J.M., Kim, T.-Y., & Wang, J. (2011). Dispositional antecedents of demonstration and usefulness of voice behavior. Journal of Business Psychology, 26, 285–297.

Detert, J.R. & Burris, E.R. (2007). Leadership behavior and employee voice: is the door really open? Academy of Management Journal, 50(4), 869–884.

DiMaggio, P.J. (1988). Interest and agency in institutional theory. In L.G. Zucker, editor. Institutional Patterns and Organizations: Culture and Environment. Cambridge, MA: Ballinger.

Dutton, J.E., Ashford, S.J., Wierba, L., O’Neill, R.M., & Hayes, E. (1997). Reading the wind: how middle managers read the context of issue selling. Strategic Management Journal, 18, 407–423.

Dutton, J.E., Ashford, S.J., O’Neill, R.M., & Lawrence, K.A. (2001). Moves that matter: issue selling and organizational change. Academy of Management Journal, 44(4), 716–736.

Eby, L.T., Adams, D.M., Russell., J.E.A., & Gaby, S.H. (2000). Perceptions of organizational readiness for change: factors related to employees’ reactions to the implementation of team-based selling. Human Relations, 53, 419–442.

Edmondson, A. (1999). Psychological safety and learning behavior in work teams. Administrative Science Quarterly, 44, 350–383.

Edmondson, A. (2003). Speaking up in the operating room: how team leaders promote learning in interdisciplinary action teams. Journal of Management Studies, 40, 1419–1452.

Fedor, D.B., Caldwell, S., & Herold, D.M. (2006). The effects of organizational changes on employee commitment: a multilevel investigation. Personnel Psychology, 59(1), 1–29.

Feldman, D.C. (2000). The Dilbert syndrome: how employee cynicism about ineffective management is changing the nature of careers in organizations. American Behavioral Scientist, 43, 1286–1300.

Feldman, S.P. (1986). Management in context: an essay on the relevance of culture for understanding organizational change. Journal of Management Studies, 23(6), 587–607.

Fenton-O’Creevy, M. (2001). Employee involvement and the middle manager: saboteur or scapegoat? Human Resource Management Journal, 11(1), 24–40.

Festinger, L. (1957). A Theory of Cognitive Dissonance. Stanford, CA: Stanford University Press.

Ford, J.K., Weissbein, D.A., & Plamondon, K.E. (2003). Distinguishing organizational from strategy commitment: linking officers’ commitment to community policing to job behaviors and ­satisfaction. Justice Quarterly, 20, 159–185.

Ford, J., Ford, L.W., & D’Amelio, A. (2008). Resistance to change: the rest of the story. Academy of Management Review, 33, 362–377.

George, J.M. (2007). Creativity in organizations. Academy of Management Annals, 1, 439–477.

George, J.M. & Zhou, J. (2001). When openness to experience and consciousness are related to creative behavior: an international approach. Journal of Applied Psychology, 86, 513–524.

Gersick, C.J.G. (1991). Revolutionary change theories: a multilevel exploration of the punctuated equilibrium paradigm. Academy of Management Review, 16(1), 10–36.

Giangreco, A. & Peccei, R. (2005). The nature and antecedents of middle manager resistance to change: evidence from an Italian context. International Journal of Human Resource Management, 18(10), 1812–1829.

Glew, D.J., O’Leary-Kelly, A.M., Griffin, R.W., & Van Fleet, D.D. (1995). Participation in ­organizations: a preview of the issues and proposed framework for future analysis. Journal of Management, 21(3), 395–422.

Godard, J. (2004). A critical assessment of the high-performance paradigm. British Journal of Industrial Relations, 42, 349–378.

Graham, J.W. (1991). Servant-leadership in organizations: inspirational and moral. Leadership Quarterly, 2, 105–119.

Han, T.-S., Chiang, H.-H., & Chang, A. (2010). Employee participation in decision-making, psychological ownership and knowledge-sharing: mediating role of organizational commitment in Taiwanese high-tech organizations. International Journal of Human Resource Management, 21(12), 2218–2233.

Harrison, D.A., Newman, D.A., & Roth, P.L. (2006). How important are job attitudes? Meta-analytic comparisons of integrative behavioral outcomes and time sequences. Academy of Management Journal, 49(1), 305–325.

Herscovitch, L. & Meyer, J.P. (2002). Commitment to organizational change: extension of a three-component model. Journal of Applied Psychology, 87, 474–487.

Hideg, I., Michela, J.L., & Ferris, D.L. (2011). Overcoming negative reactions of nonbeneficiaries to employment equity: the effect of participation in policy formulation. Journal of Applied Psychology, 96(2), 363–376.

Hirst, G., Van Knippenberg, D., & Zhou, J. (2009). A cross-level perspective on employee creativity: goal orientation, team learning behavior, and individual creativity. Academy of Management Journal, 52, 280–293.

Hitlin, S. & Piliavin, J.A. (2004). Current research, methods, and theory of values. Annual Review of Sociology, 30, 359–393.

Hofmann, D.A., Griffin, M.A., & Gavin, M.B. (2000). The application of hierarchical linear ­modeling to management research. In K.J. Klein & S.W. J. Kozlowski, editors. Multilevel Theory, Research, and Methods in Organizations: Foundations, Extentions, and New Directions. San Francisco, CA: Jossey-Bass.

Holman, D.J., Axtell, C.M., Sprigg, C.A., Totterdell, P., & Wall, T.D. (2010). The mediating role of job characteristics in job redesign interventions: a serendipitous quasi-experiment. Journal of Organizational Behavior, 31(1), 84–105.

Homan, D., Frenkel, S., Sørensen, O., & Wood, S. (2009). Work design variation and outcomes in call centers: strategic choice and institutional explanations. Industrial & Labor Relations Review, 62(4), 510–532.

Howard-Grenville, J.A. (2005). The persistence of flexible organizational routines: the role of agency and organizational context. Organization Science, 16(6), 618–635.

Howard-Grenville, J.A. (2007). Developing issue selling effectiveness over time: issue selling as resourcing. Organization Science, 18, 560–577.

Huang, X., Shi, K., Zhang, Z., & LeeChung, T. (2006). The impact of participative leadership behavior on psychological empowerment and organizational commitment in Chinese state-owned enterprises: the moderating role of organizational tenure. Asia Pacific Journal of Management, 22(3), 345–367.

Hurtz, G.M. & Williams, J.J. (2009). Attitudinal and motivational antecedents of participation in voluntary employee development activities. Journal of Applied Psychology, 94(3), 635–653.

Iverson, R.D. (1996). Employee acceptance of organizational change: the role of organizational commitment. The International Journal of Human Resource Management, 7, 122–149.

Jacobides, M.J. & Croson, D.C. (2001). Information policy: shaping the value of agency ­relationships. Academy of Management Review, 26(2), 202–223.

Janssen, O. (2004). The barrier effect on conflict with superiors in the relationship between ­empowerment and organizational commitment. Work and Stress, 18(1), 56–65.

Jaros, S. (2010). Commitment to organizational change: a critical review. Journal of Change Management, 10: 79–108.

Jermier, J. M., Knights, D., & Nord, W. R. (1994). Resistance and Power in Organizations. London, UK: Routledge.

Jimmieson, N.L., Peach, M., & White, K.M. (2008). Utilizing the theory of planned behavior to inform change management. Journal of Applied Behavioral Science, 44(2), 237–262.

Johnsen, J.R., Bernhagen, M.J., Miller, V., & Allen, M. (1996). The role of communication in managing reductions in workforce. Journal of Applied Communication Research, 24, 139–164.

Jones, G.R. (2001). Organizational Theory: Text and Cases. New York: Addison-Wesley.

Judge, T.A., Thoresen, C.J., Pucik, V., & Wellbourne, T.M. (1999). Managerial coping with organizational change: a dispositional perspective. Journal of Applied Psychology, 84, 107–122.

Kalleberg, A.L., Nesheim, T., and Olsen, K.M. (2009). Is participation good or bad for workers? Acta Sociologica, 52(2), 99–116.

Kaufman, B. (2008). Paradigms in industrial relations: original, modern and versions in-between. British Journal of Industrial Relations, 46(2), 319–339.

Kirkman, B.L. & Rosen, B. (1999). Beyond self-management: antecedents and consequences of team empowerment. Academy of Management Journal, 42, 58–74.

Konovsky, M.A. (2000). Understanding procedural justice and its impact on business organizations. Journal of Management, 26(3), 489–511.

Kramer, R.M. (1999). Trust and distrust in organizations: emerging perspectives, enduring questions. Annual Review of Psychology, 50, 569–598.

Kren, L. (1992). The moderating effects of locus of control on performance incentives and participation. Human Relations, 45(9), 991–1012.

Lam, S.K., Chen, X-P., & Schaubroeck, J. (2002). Participative decision making and employee performance in different cultures: the moderating effects of allocentrism/idiocentrism and efficacy. Academy of Management Journal, 45(5), 905–914.

LePine, J.A. & Van Dyne, L. (2001). Voice and cooperative behavior as contrasting forms of contextual performance: evidence of differential relationships with big five personality characteristics and cognitive ability. Journal of Applied Psychology, 86(2), 326–336.

Lines, R. (2004). Influence of participation in strategic change: resistance, organizational commitment and change goal achievement. Journal of Change Management, 4(3), 193–215.

Lines, R. (2005). The structure and function of attitudes toward organizational change. Human Resource Development Review, 4(1), 8–32.

Lines, R., Selart, M., Espedal, B., & Johansen, S.T. (2005). The production of trust during organizational change. Journal of Change Management, 5(2), 221–245.

Locke Davidson, A., Schofield, W., & Stocks, J. (2001). Professional cultures and collaborate efforts: a case of technologists and educators working for change. The Information Society, 17, 21–32.

Madsen, S.R., Miller, D., & Cameron, J.R. (2005). Readiness for organizational change: do commitment and social relationships in the workplace make a difference? Human Resource Development Quarterly, 16(2), 213–233.

Maertz, C.P., Mosley, D.C., & Alford, B.L. (2002). Does organizational commitment fully mediate constituent commitment effects? A reassessment and clarification. Journal of Applied Social Psychology, 32, 1300–1313.

Malewicki, D.S. (2005). Member involvement in entrepreneur network organizations: the role of commitment and trust. Journal of Developmental Entrepreneurship, 10(2), 141–166.

Manyard, M.T., Mathieu, J.E., Marsh, W.M., & Ruddy, T.M. (2007). A multilevel investigation of the influences of employees’ resistance to empowerment. Human Performance, 20(2), 147–171.

Marchington, M., Wilkinson, A., Ackers, P., & Goodman, J. (1993). The influence of managerial relations on waves of employee involvement. British Journal of Industrial Relations, 31(4), 553–576.

Mathieu, J.E. & Zajac, D.M. (1990). A review and meta-analysis of the antecedents, correlates, and consequences of organizational commitment. Psychological Bulletin, 108, 171–194.

McCaffrey, D.P., Faerman, S.R., & Hart, D.W. (1995). The appeal and difficulty of participative systems. Organization Science, 6(6), 603–627.

McHugh, M. & Brennan, S. (1994). Managing the stress of change in the public sector. International Journal of Public Sector Management, 7, 29–41.

Meyer, J.P., Irving, P.G., & Allen, N.J. (1998). Examination of the combined effects of work values and early work experiences on organizational commitment. Journal of Organizational Behavior, 19, 29–52.

Meyer, J.P., Stanley, D.J., Herscovitch, L., & Topolnytsky, L. (2002). Affective, continuance, and normative commitment to the organization: a meta-analysis of antecedents, correlates, and consequences. Journal of Vocational Behavior, 61, 20–52.

Meyer, J.W. & Rowan, B. (1983). The structure of educational organizations. In J.W. Meyer & W.R. Scott, editors. Organizational Environments: Ritual and Rationality. Beverly Hills, CA: Sage.

Meyerson, D.E. & Martin, J. (1987). Cultural change: an integration of three different views. Journal of Management Studies, 24, 623–647.

Michel, A., Stegmaier, R., & Sonntag, K. (2010). I scratch your back—you scratch mine. Do procedural justice and organizational identification matter for employees’ cooperation during change? Journal of Change Management, 10, 41–59.

Miner, A.S., Bassoff, P., & Moorman, C. (2001). Organizational improvisation and learning: a field study. Administrative Science Quarterly, 46, 304–337.

Mowday, R.T., Steers, R.M., & Porter, S. (1979). The measurement of organizational commitment. Journal of Vocational Behavior, 14, 224–247.

Neubert, M.J. & Cady, S.H. (2001). Program commitment: a multi-study longitudinal field investigation of its impact and antecedents. Personnel Psychology, 52, 421–448.

Neumann, J.E. (1989). Why people don’t participate in organizational change. In R. Woodman & W. Pasmore, editors. Research in Organizational Change and Development, 3: 181–212. Greenwich, CT: JAI Press.

O’Reilly, C.A. & Chatman, J.A. (1986). Organizational commitment and psychological attachment: the effects of compliance, identification, and internalization on prosocial behavior. Journal of Applied Psychology, 71, 492–499.

Oreg, S. (2003). Resistance to change: developing an individual difference measure. Journal of Applied Psychology, 88, 680–693.

Pache, A.-C. & Santtos, F. (2010). When worlds collide: the internal dynamics of organizational responses to conflicting institutional demands. Academy of Management Review, 35(3), 455–476.

Pettigrew, A.M. (1987). Context and action in the transformation of the firm. Journal of Management Studies, 24(6), 649–670.

Pfeffer, J. & Sutton, R.I. (2006). Hard Facts, Dangerous Half Truths and Absolute Nonsense: Profiting from Evidence Based Management. Boston, MA: Harvard Business School Press.

Piderit, S.K. (2000). Rethinking resistance and recognizing ambivalence: a multidimensional view of attitudes toward organizational change. Academy of Management Review, 25(4), 783–794.

Podsakoff, P.M., MacKenzie, S.B., Paine, J.B., & Bachrach, D.G. (2000). Organizational citizenship behaviors: a critical review of the theoretical and empirical literature and suggestions for future research. Journal of Management, 26(3), 513–563.

Randall, D.M., Fedor, D.B., & Longnecker, C.O. (1990). The behavioral expression of ­organizational commitment. Journal of Vocational Behavior, 36, 210–224.

Reichers, A.E. (1985). A review and reconceptualization of organizational commitment. Academy of Management Review, 10, 465–476.

Sagie, A. & Koslowsky, M. (1994). Organizational attitudes and behaviors as a function of ­participation in strategic and tactical change decisions: an application of path-goal theory. Journal of Organizational Behavior, 15(1), 37–47.

Schein, E.H. (1992). Organizational Culture and Leadership. San Francisco, CA: Jossey-Bass.

Schweiger, D. & DeNisi, A. (1991). Communications with employees following a merger: a longitudinal field experiment. Academy of Management Journal, 34, 110–135.

Selart, M. & Schei, V. (2011). Organizational culture. In M.A. Runco & S.R. Pritzker, editors. Encyclopedia of Creativity, 2nd edition, volume 2. San Diego, CA: Academic Press.

Shalley, C.E. & Gilson, L.L. (2004). What leaders need to know: a review of social and contextual factors that can foster or hinder creativity. Leadership Quarterly, 15, 33–53.

Shalley, C.E., Gilson, L.L., & Blum, T.C. (2009). Interactive effects of growth need strengths, work context, and job complexity on self-reported creative performance. Academy of Management Journal, 52, 489–505.

Shapira, Z. & Griffith, T.L. (1990). Comparing work values of engineers with managers, production and clerical workers: a multivariate analysis. Journal of Organizational Behavior, 11, 281–292.

Shweta & Jha, S. (2009). Determinants of organizational citizenship behavior: a review of literature. Journal of Management and Public Policy, 1(1), 33–42.

Sims, H.P., Faraj, & Yun, S. (2009). When should a leader be directive or empowering? How to develop your own situational theory of leadership. Business Horizons, 52, 149–158.

Smeenk, S.G.A., Eisinga, R.N., Teelken, J.C., & Doorewaards, J.A.C.M. (2006). The effects of HRM practices on organizational commitment among university employees. International Journal of Human Resource Management, 17(12), 2035–2054.

Srivastava, A., Bartol, K.M., & Locke, E.A. (2006). Empowering leadership in management teams: effects on knowledge sharing, efficacy, and performance. Academy of Management Journal, 49, 1239–1251.

Stensaker, I, Falkenberg, J., & Grønhaug, K. (2008). Implementation activities and organizational sensemaking. Journal of Applied Behavioral Science, 44(2), 162–185.

Sverke, M., Hallgren, J., Näswall, K., Göransson, S., & Öhrming, J. (2008). Employee participation in organizational change: investigating the effects of proactive vs. reactive implementation of downsizing in Swedish hospitals. Zeitschrift für personalforschnung, 22(2), 111–129.

Tangirula, S. & Ramanujam, R. (2008). Exploring nonlinearity in employee voice: the effects of personal control and organizational identification. Academy of Management Journal, 51(6), 1189–1203.

Trevor, C.O. & Nyberg, A.J. (2008). Keeping your headcount when all about you are losing theirs: downsizing, voluntary turnover rates, and the moderating roles of HR practices. Academy of Management Journal, 51, 259–276.

Tushman, M. & Romanelli, E. (1985). Organizational evolution: a metamorphosis model of ­convergence and reorientation. In L.L. Cummings & B.M. Staw, editors. Research in Organizational Behavior, 7, 171–222.

Ulrich, D. & Barney, J.B. (1984). Perspectives in organizations: resource dependency, efficiency, and population. Academy of Management Review, 9(3), 471–481.

Van Dam, K., Oreg, S., & Schyns, B. (2008). Daily work contexts and resistance to organizational change: the role of leader-member exchange, development climate, and change process ­characteristics. Applied Psychology: An International Review, 57(2), 313–334.

Van Dyne, L. & LePine, J.A. (1998). Helping and voice extra-role behavior: evidence of construct and predictive validity. Academy of Management Journal, 41, 108–119.

Van Knippenberg, B., Martin, L., & Tyler, T. (2006). Process-orientation versus outcome-­orientation during organizational change: the role of organizational identification. Journal of Organizational Behavior, 27(6), 685–704.

Vazquez, X.H. (2004). Allocating decision rights on the shop floor: a perspective from transaction cost economics and organization theory. Organization Science, 15(4), 463–480.

Vecchio, R.P., Justin, J.E., & Pearce, C.L. (2010). Empowering leadership: an examination of mediating mechanisms within a hierarchical structure. The Leadership Quarterly, 21, 530–542.

Wagner, J.A. III & Gooding, R.Z. (1987). Shared influence and organizational behavior: a meta-analysis of situational variables expected to moderate participation-outcome relationships. Academy of Management Journal, 30(3), 524–541.

Wanberg, C.R. & Banas, J.T. (2000). Predictors and outcomes of openness to changes in a ­reorganizing workplace. Journal of Applied Psychology, 85, 132–142.

Warr, P. (2008). Work values: some demographic and cultural correlates. Journal of Occupational and Organizational Psychology, 81, 751–775.

West, M.A., Hirst, G., Richter, A., & Shipton, H. (2004). Twelve steps to heaven: successfully managing change through developing innovative teams. European Journal of Work and Organizational Psychology, 13, 269–299.

Wright, T.A. & Bonnett, D.G. (2002). The moderating effects of employee tenure on the ­relationship between organizational commitment and job performance: a meta-analysis. Journal of Applied Psychology, 87, 1183–1190.

Yukl, G. (2006). Leadership in Organizations. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice-Hall.

Zhang, X. & Bartol, K.M. (2010). Linking empowering leadership and employee creativity: the influence of psychological empowerment, intrinsic motivation, and creative process ­engagement. Academy of Management Journal, 53, 107–128.

Zhou, J. & George, J.M. (2001). When job dissatisfaction leads to creativity: encouraging the expression of voice. Academy of Management Journal, 44, 682–696.





15


Developmental Approaches for Enhancing Organizational Creativity and Innovation


Jane Henry





15.1 Introduction


In the last 30 years there has been increasing interest in ways of changing organizations in a manner that enhances creativity and innovation. One of the principle reasons for this is the increased pressure brought about by global competition. In high-wage economies, maintaining a high level of creativity and innovation is an obvious way of adding value. In developing economies, creativity and innovation offer ways of moving up the value chain. The organizational-change approaches used to achieve this end are many and ­various, ranging from structural and cultural changes through idea and people development to the management of innovation, process improvement, and organizational renewal.

In organizations it is common for creativity to be associated with the front end of the creative-process research and development (R&D) and ideas. Innovation tends to be associated with the development phase, where creative ideas are developed into working models, and when used in conjunction with creativity and innovation, entrepreneurship is often associated with the business of bringing new products and services to market. However, use of these terms varies and “creativity” is also associated with management approaches that aim to draw out the creativity in all employees. “Innovation” is sometimes used in a broader sense to cover the R&D, development, and marketing of new products. “Entrepreneurship” is also particularly associated with setting up small businesses and the wider process of bringing creative ideas and innovative products into being.





15.2 Perspective


The assumptions people make about the causes of creativity and innovation influence the choice of change and development approach adopted (Henry, 1994). For example, ­traditionally, creativity was seen as the provenance of a single individual, and it was assumed that while some people had creative ability, others did not. This led to research on the nature of the characteristics of creative people (e.g. Guildford, 1959) and a stress on recruiting the best staff. Evidence suggests that the caliber of individual staff members is especially important at the front end of the creative process, for people like research scientists who come up with the initial ideas. However, creative endeavor in organizations ­generally involves teamwork, so, more recently, stress has been placed on the means of drawing out the creativity in staff members across the organization, rather than focusing solely on the privileged few.

A number of studies show that creative people are able to tolerate uncertainty for longer than their less-creative counterparts and spend more time exploring questions than are the less-creative, who are more likely to jump to premature conclusions (e.g. Perkins, 1981). To achieve success within organizations, intrapreneurs generally also need persistence. People are more likely to persist in areas they care about; hence, intrinsic motivation is closely associated with creative output (Amabile, 1983). Organizations that grant members of staff the opportunity to follow up some of their own work interests generally have that trust amply rewarded.

The popular conception of creativity (De Bono, 1984; Koestler, 1969) is typically associated with mental flexibility and divergent thinking—“thinking out of the box,” as it is often referred to in organizations. The logic here is that more-creative, open-minded people are able to see connections that lead to new ideas which more task-oriented people would miss. Many large European organizations have some process to facilitate thinking out of the box. This ranges from away days through focus groups to programs that train staff members to think creatively. Unilever, for example, has routinely put large numbers of staff members through creative problem-solving training. Other companies have a companywide problem-solving process that employees are expected to use.

Creative-thinking programs often encourage divergent thinking. These frequently work on the principle that quantity breeds quality, and they aim to gather as many ideas as possible through procedures such as brainstorming, morphological analysis, and the use of analogy (Van Gundy, 1988). In my experience, these procedures are best placed within a creative problem-solving process, where time is spent considering which question to devote onself to, what angle on the question is likely to be most productive, which ideas seem most promising, and the acceptability, feasibility, and ownership of plans for the implementation of the preferred way(s) forward. This type of approach generates ideas, enables people to check whether they have anticipated possible ways forward, gives people a common language for discussing problems, and often helps breed tolerance of different working styles within the group. The ethos of creative thinking and brainstorming tends to encourage the acceptance of all ideas and the transmutation of crazy ideas into useful options. This allows participants to see that those with a different style and set of values to themselves offer very different ideas and that the favored solution often benefits from this mix of perspectives.

Studies of creativity in various domains, including science and business, suggest that mental flexibility is not enough. Rather, experience appears to be a critical factor for ­outstanding creativity (Simon, 1988). It is known that experts think differently from novices in that they chunk information differently and hold it in more sophisticated maps (Kaufmann, 1988). It seems that this facility enables them to spot unusual patterns more readily and leaves them better able to determine which are critical. Hence, on this reading, after Fleming had examined numerous growths on Petri dishes, he was better placed to realize the possible importance of the unusual one that led to the discovery of penicillin (Henry, 2001).

The importance of sector-relevant expertise is more recognized in some countries than in others. German culture tends to place more value on expertise than do its counterparts in the USA and UK, and German managers are much more likely to have sector-relevant ­backgrounds, for example in engineering, than US or UK managers (Jones, 1988). ­Recognition of the importance of experience in developing tacit knowledge has been better appreciated in the East than the West (Nonaka & Takeuchi, 1995). In Japan, for example, companies regularly exchange members of staff. This offers the first-hand experience and practice in context that is central to the development of tacit knowledge. In the late 20th century, knowledge management became fashionable, partly in an attempt to capture and share knowledge across organizations, so staff members could learn good practice and ideas from others.

The perspectives on creativity discussed so far intervene at the level of the individual—seeking to develop the creativity within a person. But within organizations, bringing a creative idea to fruition is very much a process of co-creation. It is important that people feel comfortable and trust their colleagues enough to be willing to share ideas and try new things (Handy, 1993). We know people are more likely to explore new possibilities when they feel safe, so the culture in which creativity takes place is important. In open and creative organizational cultures, people feel freer to try new things and to challenge the status quo than they do in more closed and bureaucratic cultures (Ekvall, 1991). West (2002) elaborates on ways of enhancing performance in creative and innovative work teams, while Henry (2001, 2006) and Rickards (1999) elaborate on ways of enhancing organizational creativity.

Csikszentmihalyi (1996) has elucidated the importance of the field within which the creativity takes place. No matter how brilliant any given individual is, in order for their creativity to be recognized the organizational culture and the sector that the innovation addresses need to be supportive of the endeavor if the innovation is to have a chance of being developed and accepted (Csikszentmihalyi, 1996). This means that for the innovation to be taken up, attention must be given to the politics of acceptance within and outside the organization.





15.3 Culture


15.3.1 Open cultures


Creativity is associated with more-open cultures that exhibit a higher level of trust. Open cultures afford employees elements of freedom and control as to how they go about their tasks. A number of writers have found this to be important for creative endeavor; Amabile & Gryskiewicz (1988) found it important for industrial research scientists, for example.

At the start of a new creative approach, people are often very enthusiastic. A number of successful new industries seem to have benefitted from a core of enthusiasts who were able to meet informally. This appears to hold true for the flourishing of art in Florence in the 15th century, of information and communications technology (ICT) in Silicon Valley, and of biotechnology in and around Cambridge, UK (Csikszentmihalyi, 1996). ­Fukuyama (1999) suggests that face-to-face contact helps breeds social capital, which helps generate trust, enabling people in an informal network to be prepared to share ideas and so build on each others’ knowledge. Jelinek & Schoonhaven (1991) found that open, high-trust cultures were a necessary feature of innovative organizations. They found that Intel, Motorola, and Hewlett Packard were distinguished by openness and informality. Open cultures are not without cost, however. When more people can have a say, it often takes more time to discuss things prior to reaching agreement, and middle management may lose power.

The organizational culture and climate can have an impact on motivation and the capacity for innovation. A creative climate is one in which people feel free to challenge ideas, mistakes are tolerated, and staff members are supported in creative endeavors. In creative cultures, managers walk the talk so that people know that it is OK to question accepted practice (Ekvall, 1991). It also helps if the chain of command is not too long, so that creative decisions do not get lost as they wend their way through bureaucracy and associated committees. This form of management suits some people but not others. ­Culture-change programs may lose a percentage of managers who cannot adapt to the loss of power entailed in a more open way of working (Henry, 1992).

Culture-change programs need to be sensitive to the subculture they are operating in. Staff members who are more task-oriented seem to favor more conservative climates than do interest-driven and creative employees. Ekvall (1997), for example, found that production departments tend to include staff members who favor more conservative climates than their R&D colleagues.

There appear to be some differences in favored cultures across sectors. West & Farr (1990, West, 2002) found that for public-sector employees in UK samples, clarity about the goal to be reached was an important characteristic of the climate they deemed most likely to be ­successfully creative. This perception may be especially important in environments that ­feature successive initiatives (as many UK public-sector employees have experienced) and may also be characteristic of a workforce for whom security is particularly important.

It is not surprising that the idea that allowing greater openness, local empowerment, decentralization, and less management control will enhance organizational creativity (e.g. Peters, 1988) has been championed in Western, individualistic, Anglo-Saxon cultures, since a participative approach to management fits with their cultural values. The application of these ideas to more hierarchical cultures would seem to be problematic, though managers in such cultures often concede that some moves towards opening up the organizational culture to capitalize on employee ideas would be desirable (Keong, 2000).

Tom Peters has been a high-profile exponent of the benefits of an entrepreneurial culture. On the basis of an examination of the characteristics of organizations perceived to be excellent in the early 1980s, Peters & Waterman (1982) advocated a culture that: had a bias for action; stayed close to customers; encouraged autonomy and entrepreneurship; aimed for productivity through people; favored “hands-on” management; strived for value; stuck to what it was good at; used simple forms; and had a lean ­staffing structure. Unfortunately, as is often the case with organizations paraded as examples of good ­practice, many of Peters’ firms have not fared so well over time (e.g. Pascale, 1990).





15.3.2 Changing culture


In the 1990s, many companies attempted to change their organizational culture in the direction of greater participation and flexibility in order to draw out the creativity of their staff, as a means of enhancing responsiveness and as a path to continuous innovation. Government initiatives such as the UK government’s “Winning Company” program endorsed this approach by advocating practices that unlocked people’s potential, empowered employees, provided good communications, increased knowledge of customers, offered training, and made use of teamwork. For example, Fogden (1999) described an attempt to open up culture in the UK government employment service that adopted principles being used in many creative-change programs. These involved identifying and sharing good practice, using an organizational-culture inventory to monitor opinion, offering workshops that looked at creativity and change, supporting managers taking innovative initiatives, establishing and monitoring the progress of pilots, and identifying lessons that could be learned.

A serious problem with some change programs of this type occurs when the change is in the rhetoric rather than the reality. This happens when managers are not “walking the talk” and employee cynicism sets in. A number of culture-change programs in the 1990s coincided with a need for cost-cutting. Keenoy & Anthony (1992) described the difficulty of trying to engage employees in an achievement-oriented culture-change program when, for example, TSB had just announced that 5000 staff members were to be made redundant. Equally, Watson (1994) describes the failure of aspects of a participative culture-change effort at ZTC Ryland, a British telecommunications plant, that had been welcomed by many managers. The proclaimed merits of autonomy, freedom, and respect came at a time of financial stringency and cost constraints, which the workers thought conflicted with the values espoused by the change program, and as a consequence they felt they were not being treated with respect. In her substantive review, Legge (1994) came to the conclusion that the benefits of establishing an enterprise culture did not have the impact and were not as lasting as senior managers claimed.

Another mistake some companies make is to expect progress too quickly. An early BP culture-change program aimed to shift from a “yes but” to a “yes and” culture by stressing the importance of open thinking, personal impact, empowerment, and networking. However, key personnel involved admitted that the 2 years allowed for the process was much too short (Henry, 1992).

Successful culture change is usually a long-term process. Semler (1996) noted that it took 15 years to transform his father’s traditional and hierarchical organization from a bureaucratic top-heavy firm to one that was largely self-organizing. John Harvey-Jones (1988) also took many years to change ICI, one of the largest chemical companies in the world. Karmoy, the largest aluminum plant in Europe—based in Norway—built a successful creative-change program around a gardening metaphor and workshops aimed at all staff. Following this program, the number of employee suggestions rose, absenteeism was reduced, and production and satisfaction levels increased. The initiative followed a series of earlier change programs in the company, which the lead consultant felt laid important groundwork for its acceptability (Parker, 1991).





15.4 Developing People


Many change efforts aim to push responsibility down and empower staff members to enable the organization to demonstrate greater flexibility and faster response and incorporate valuable new processes more rapidly. The rationale is that a workforce that has more flexibility and is empowered to take local decisions is likely to be not only more motivated but also generally more creative, cooperative, and committed. Of course, the degree of employee empowerment varies considerably, from call-center employees being allowed to vary their greetings slightly and make use of a suggestion box, through communication and consultation about management decisions, to staff at Jaguar being allowed to select their own training courses or companies that allow their staff to self-organize.





15.4.1 Organizational learning


A popular approach to organizational change through the development of people is encapsulated in the idea of the learning organization (Pedlar et al., 1991; Senge, 1991). In this approach, more attention is paid to the development of individuals, and teams and systems are developed to support staff development. Focus groups may be set up. Staff members are encouraged to engage in both single-loop learning, where they learn new skills and are empowered to adjust and refine existing processes, and double-loop learning, where they advance their understanding so they can engage with, challenge, and change existing systems. The learning-organization approach draws on earlier work in action learning (Revans, 1969), reflective action (Argyris & Schön, 1978), and systems thinking (Beer, 1981).

Different proponents have had slightly different emphases. Senge (1991) stressed the importance of systems thinking, along with personal and professional development, expectation and assumption, fostering a shared vision, and the centrality of team learning in organizational transformation. Pedlar et al. (1991) focused more on developing employees. Garvin (1993) recommended encouraging an environment where people systematically attempt to solve problems, experiment with new approaches, and learn from their own experience and the practice of others and transfer the knowledge gained. He also suggested training people in problem-solving skills, giving them opportunities to apply them as boundaries opened up both within the organization and across the supply chain.

Education and training is often a key part of people-development programs. ­Companies such as ICI, Ford, Rover, Bosch, and Baxi have all offered to pay for employees to take a course of their choosing. In many cases, these include non-work-related courses. The idea is that the participation will help build trust in the company, increase the ­employee’s self-confidence and enthusiasm, and perhaps make them more flexible at work (Holden, 1996).

Attention is also often given to interpersonal relations, acculturation, and professional development. Giving 360-degree feedback may help people understand how they are perceived at various levels of the organization. Junior members of staff may be assigned a learning buddy to discuss issues with, and increasingly middle and senior managers are being given the option of coaching to assist them with individual issues (Bartlett & Ghosal, 1995).





15.4.2 Self-organization


Another perspective on creativity, drawn from work on complexity, sees it as a property that emerges naturally from complex adaptive systems (such as organizations) in which the active “agents” are free to interact, learn, and communicate (Stacy, 1996; see Chapter 12 of this volume for a discussion of complexity). From this perspective, creativity is seen as a property that is natural but very hard to predict and control. This leads to a focus on the community of practice (Wenger, 1998) within which creative people operate. It draws attention to the importance of co-creation and leads consultants such as Wheatley (1994) to stress the need to facilitate interactions among employees and across the networks they engage in (Stacy, 1996 and Chapter 12).

Some organizations see management control as such a serious dampener on the natural creativity of employees that they empower their staffs to a much greater degree than is normal; effectively these companies are self-organized by the workers. This approach is found among professionals whose work is complex, such as doctors, lawyers, software engineers, and academics. It has also been tried in other kinds of small- and medium-sized firms but is less common in large firms. Ricardo Semler’s (1996) transformation of Semco in Brazil offers a well-known example of this kind of approach. He began by ending clocking in and out and moved on to discarding manuals and reducing layers of management. By the 1990s, the workers had an active voice in corporate decisions, the accounts were transparent and open to inspection, company rules had been curtailed to a series of ­cartoons, and staff members were free to choose how they wanted to run their sections. Most opted for a more participative approach, but the cultures developed varied across different sections. Teams selected employees locally, appraised their bosses, and had a say in their salaries and bonus levels (Semler, 1996).

Ken Lewis of Dutton Engineering achieved high levels of creativity, quality, and productivity by allowing employees to self-organize in his small sheet-metal-working company. There were no set hours and decision-making was pushed down to the lowest level. Like Semco, he embraced open-book accounting, profit-sharing, sponsoring of training, and self-managed teams who dealt directly with the customer, handling design, cost, and ­delivery (Lewis & Lytton, 1995).

Some successful creative companies aim to support a loose creative atmosphere through internal design, such as open-plan offices and pleasant environments (e.g. Hallmark), and/or the provision of goodies such as free pastries to keep staff happy (e.g. Google).

Oticon, a medium-sized well-established Danish hearing-aid manufacturer, dispensed with the traditional organizational hierarchy. Its 1500 staff members were free to attach themselves to any of the company’s projects. The office was completely open-plan and staff members had movable desks and phones, which they could relocate according to the project they were working on. This type of arrangement aims to capitalize on the idea that important breakthroughs happen in informal corridor conversations, not office memos. Employers are often keen on the cost savings afforded by open-plan offices, but the arrangement does not suit all personality types. Introverts often work better in environments that afford them more privacy and quiet.





15.5 Structure


Over the last 50 years, many organizations have radically changed their structures. They have delayed, decentralized, divisionalized, and in many cases downsized as they outsourced non-core elements, such as IT, manufacturing, customer enquiries, billing, and/or cleaning. Many innovative large companies have followed Hewlett-Packard in organizing divisions round product types rather than basing their structures on functional specializations. Pioneers like Volvo based their manufacturing around cell structures. The drivers for these changes have been both an a desire for an increase in flexibility and a reduction of costs. The increased flexibility and shorter decision chains afforded by leaner, flatter structures and the increased use of multidisciplinary teams help facilitate organizational creativity.





15.5.1 Innovative projects


Creative and innovative projects do not always fit happily in traditional organizational structures with separate R&D, design, development, production, sales, and service departments. In such settings, innovation typically operates as a relay structure, moving from department to department. This approach can be relatively slow and there is considerable potential for the creative impetus to be lost en route. Alternative ways of organizing creative and innovative projects include the matrix organization, where staff members retain departmental duties but are also assigned to special projects. The downside is that dual reporting can be problematic. Instead, staff members may be relieved of ordinary duties and placed on an independent project team for the duration of the project. Top management sometimes supports a venture-team approach, where a small group working on creative and innovative projects operates outside standard reporting procedures (Holt, 1991). Nonaka & Takeuchi (1995) champion an approach where routine work is handled through a traditional structure and parallel project teams pursue creative and innovative goals.

Many creative projects are of a limited duration. The construction and media industries have a long history of specialist subcontractors who come together for the period of a project. The highly creative film and advertising production industry works this way very successfully. Kanter (1988) found that rehiring depends partly on reputation but also on whether those being considered have successful working relationships with people already hired to the project. This practice is based upon the premise that people work better with those they know and trust.





15.5.2 Organizational boundaries


The boundary of the organization itself may need to change in order to enable it to be more creative in boosting efficiency, meeting deadlines, and mitigating risk. This usually entails collaboration and alliances based on partnerships, mergers, or outsourcing, whether for development, manufacture, or marketing.

For example, Sony and Philips formed a partnership to develop the CD with a view to setting an accepted international standard—a goal they achieved. Earlier they had each failed when going it alone (with the introduction of the laser disc and Betamax video).

The high cost of innovation encourages some organizations to undertake joint ventures. For example, car manufacturers like Ford, SEAT, and VW use common components over a variety of brands and use their particular logo to market essentially the same car in order to save on development costs.

In industries requiring a very large capital base, such as aerospace or stock trading, a logical way of providing the liquidity necessary for new creative endeavors is to merge with larger companies. Many financial companies have been part of successive mergers.

In contrast, less capital-intensive industries such as retailing have found vertical disaggregation advantageous. Benetton, for example, subcontracts 95% of its manufacturing activities. Marks & Spencer and Nike have tried to maintain a close relationship with their suppliers. Ken Lewis of Dutton argues that it is better to develop a long-term relationship with suppliers where possible, and that it is more important to pick a supplier with whom you share values than the cheapest tender if the relationship is to work long-term.

Developments in IT have enabled new forms of organization. Recently, some of the most successful organizations, such as Visa, Amazon, eBay and Google, have flourished by providing interorganizational networks. With Visa, for example, it is the connectivity to many other organizations that is important (Mulgan & Briscoe, 1996). Typically such businesses operate with a relatively small central staff. Visa also has distributed ownership.

A lot of creativity and innovation happens across organizational networks, especially informal networks. More flexible structures and open cultures help people take advantage of such networks, both within and outside the organization (Nohria & Eccles, 1992).





15.6 Developing Ideas


Organizational-change processes like scenario-planning, benchmarking, and suggestion schemes are commonly employed to help organizations develop more creative ideas.





15.6.1 Foresight


Scenario-planning offers ways of anticipating different possible futures. The effect of such exercises is that managers tend to become more flexible as their perception of possible future realities is expanded and altered. Shell famously used scenario-planning to help it better prepare for the unexpected oil price hike in the 1970s (Wack, 1985). I have used scenario planning successfully to help public-sector workers realize the changed nature of the external context in which they work. Following scenario-planning, participants are often more open to change and more likely to proffer creative ideas.

Not all good ideas need to come from inside an organization. Indeed, history teaches us that the strategy of being first to market is expensive and high-risk (e.g. Kay, 1998). There are many examples of fast followers winning out: VHS’s triumph over Betamax, for example. Checking out the competition and copying it, or “creative swiping,” as Peters (1988) termed it, is a common route to organizational change. Benchmarking offers a way of formally analyzing what the competition is doing (Zairi, 1996). Camp (1989) claims this enables companies to use ideas from proven practice, consider many options, and check market reality.





15.6.2 Nurturing ideas


The evidence suggests that employees across an organization have many innovative ideas that are very valuable to their employers (Tidd et al., 1997). Many organizational-change programs aim to capitalize on such locally-informed knowledge and ideas. Developing suggestion schemes, giving free time, and providing idea screening processes are ways of doing so.

Suggestions schemes tend to quickly pay for themselves, but their success is dependent on the organizational culture in which they are launched (Schroeder & Robinson, 1991). Not surprisingly, where trust is higher, the number of suggestions per employee tends also to be higher. Honda, for example, has had eight suggestions per employee per year, and Toyota has claimed that it implements over 90% of the suggestions it receives (Toyoda, 1987). Opinion is mixed as to whether or not it is a good idea to offer financial incentives for suggestions. Some companies believe in financial inducements, while others, such as Semco, are strongly against them, believing they mitigate against a culture in which ideas are shared freely. Companies may also offer formal recognition of an idea’s worth through awards (Semler, 1994).

A high level of employee freedom as to how to go about one’s work helps companies like Google and 3M sustain a high level of creativity year after year (Mitchell, 1989). One practical way to encourage creativity is to allow members of staff a percentage of time to work on their own projects. Google grants its employees 20% of their time for such activities. Staff members can attract further resources by interesting colleagues in employing their 20% free time towards their own project. Sometimes staff members can also bid for resources to support their pet projects. People are generally more creative and put in much more effort when working on things that interest them, so many successful innovations have started life as a free-time project: Post-it Notes are a well-known example (Nayak & Ketteringham, 1991).

Kodak has used an internal innovation screening system, where innovation facilitators help employees develop their ideas through a process that allows them to bid for supporting resources. This is a five-stage process: idea generation, screening, group review, sponsorship-seeking, and sponsorship. Companies need some such screening mechanism, both to help employees nurture creative ideas and to help the company determine which ideas to fund and for how long, recognizing that only a small percentage of the population of ideas will reach the market. Kodak, for example, found that between 1979 and 1988 only 4% of ideas became commercial products (Rosenfeld & Servo, 1991).

Of course, not all creative ideas are developed in-house. In some sectors, new ideas are regularly bought in. For example, in creative industries such as pop music and medicine, smaller creative start-ups often come up with new approaches, while larger established players undertake more of the manufacture and marketing. Large pharmaceutical ­companies often buy up small biotech companies with promising new approaches and take their products forward through expensive development, testing, production, and sales.





15.7 Managing Innovation


The type of organizational-development (OD) process needed to develop and/or sustain innovation varies with the size of the organization, the sector, the stage of the creative endeavor, and the culture within which the change is to be undertaken.





15.7.1 Stage


Small organizations often have open cultures and their main challenge for sustaining creativity may have most to do with issues around gaining funding for expansion and putting procedures in place that enable them to capitalize on their initial success. A known problem for many creative small businesses is that expansion generally involves the creative CEO, who started the company, being willing to let go of control of all aspects of their creative endeavor; a difficult move for many who have put their heart and soul into getting a business up and running (Bolton, 1971).

The UK and US governments often see small business as their economic salvation and assume that new jobs and areas of growth will come from ideas within this sector. In the UK, successive government initiatives have aimed to help small businesses set up, develop business plans, and take on employees. A weakness in this policy is that many small-­business owners are attracted to the sector because of a preference for control and a consequent dislike of working for large organizations. Such people have no interest in expanding their small business as they like the control small size offers them (Gray, 1993).

Many creative people and inventors are not good business managers, though there are exceptions like James Dyson, the inventor of the bagless vacuum and MD of Dyson. In larger organizations, creative individuals need to be able to handle politics if their good idea is to reach the market. Many find they need champions and sponsors within the organization to help support them through the development and marketing procedures (Schon, 1963). Even in 3M, a company famed for producing a high percentage of new products each year, it took 10 years for the inventor of the not-very-sticky glue in Post-it pads to find a manager who understood the value of this substance and who was willing to champion this invention to market (Nayak & Ketteringham, 1991). Organizations can help develop creativity by acknowledging the importance of the different roles that are typically needed to bring a creative idea to market and to support associated activities—for example, giving time for creative scientists to explore and attend conferences and allowing technological gatekeepers to keep abreast of new developments (Maidique, 1990).

Creativity and innovation in organizations often follows a phased entrepreneurial process: first a creative exploratory phase, where someone comes up with an idea; then a development phase, where a prototype is worked up to a working model; and finally a phase in which the new product or service is marketed and distributed to the public.

There is a case for taking account of people’s motivation when rewarding them for successful creative endeavors. Creative people are often motivated by job satisfaction and so work well when given the maximum autonomy possible. However, when it comes to innovative development, multidisciplinary teams are often involved in taking an initial idea forward and developing an economic working prototype. In this stage, a group-level reward structure is considered more effective. In contrast, entrepreneurs who are more focused on reaching the maximum market often value financial recompense for the risks they take in achieving this end.





15.7.2 Sector


Innovation is often associated with radical change, but even in areas such as technological innovation, most new products and services emerge from evolutionary change (Henry et al., 2002a). Even a radical change such as the light bulb emerges after incremental improvement in associated technologies, such as vacuum pumping, electricity distribution, and glass-blowing. The sources of innovation tend to vary by industry.

Governments often implicitly subscribe to a model of innovation in which innovation in science emerges from universities and/or R&D departments. This seems to hold true for scientific inventions and industrial innovations like nylon and lasers (Rothwell, 1994). However, commercial applications from basic science are by no means guaranteed. Government records in identifying winners have not always been encouraging, and other factors are more important in many industries.

In consumer products, market demand appears to have been the key trigger for the development of ever-more-sophisticated refrigerators, airbags, and televisions, for example. The importance of market-led innovation has caused some organizations to make a point of working with consumers to find out how they use their products. Apple famously uses this type of process to help design very user-friendly and successful computers.

Entrepreneurs can also be critical in certain high-risk innovations. For example, Morita, the chairman of Sony, famously championed the very successful Walkman against engineering advice and tested the prototype with friends on the golf course (Morita, 1988).

Others factors are also important: technological development has been critical in electronics and chemicals, design is particularly important for machinery, production for automobiles, and software for finance and travel (Tidd et al., 1997). By the 1980s, integrated development, parallel processes, networking, and attention to quality appear to have given the Japanese and other Eastern manufacturers an edge over many of their Western counterparts in a number of fields. Nowadays, enhanced ICT, flexibility, attention to continuous improvement, and ongoing learning all seem to be critical in getting innovations out quickly enough with sufficient quality (Henry et al., 2002a). See Tidd & Bessant (2009) for elaboration on ways of managing innovation.

Creativity entails doing something new, so it is often very hard to predict the outcome of any given innovation. This is particularly true for development-engineering projects that are also very expensive. Organizations sometimes task more than one team to find a way of developing a particular innovation, such as the tilting train. Usually such an organization can only afford to take one team’s design to completion. In this type of development-engineering setting it is very important that the management decision is seen to be fair by all parties, as it is very dispiriting to lose out after working hard on an innovative project for months or years.

Innovations often follow a cycle, where the introduction of a radical innovation is followed by a series of incremental improvements (Foster, 1986). Essentially, a radically new product emerges (e.g. refrigerators instead of ice) and a number of competing products enter the market. After a while, a dominant design tends to emerge and competitors attempt to gain an advantage by reducing costs and/or improving quality (Abernathy & Utterback, 1988). These efforts foster many innovative organizational-change programs.





15.8 Improving Processes


Organizational change has been characterized by a succession of management fads, from managerial grids and decision trees in the 1960s through management by objectives in the 1970s to an emphasis on corporate culture in the early 1990s (Pascale, 1990). Organizational-change processes designed to improve the quality, cost, functionality, and/or reliability of creative and innovative products and services have exhibited similar successive fashions (Henry et al., 2002a). Recently we have seen continuous improvement, total quality management (TQM), lean management, reengineering, Six Sigma, the learning organization, and knowledge management, for example.





15.8.1 Incremental change


In large organizations, there are two key competing trends with an impact on creativity: first, increased participation, and second, enhanced monitoring. While the former is conducive to creativity, the latter is not necessarily so (e.g. Cummings et al., 1975; Zhou, 2003). Nevertheless, in many sectors, from call centers to manufacturing, surveillance of day-to-day work has been increasing (Ball, 2010).

One of the most influential change approaches aimed at improving innovation processes is the quality movement. This came to the fore in the West partly as a response to the superior reliability of a number of Japanese products (notably cars and electronic consumer goods) in the latter part of the 20th century. W. Edwards Deming (1982) is credited with inspiring Japanese companies like Toyota, Honda, Sony, and Panasonic to improve the reliability and quality of their products through a series of measures that drew on local knowledge to improve procedures. These included looking for faults in the system rather than blaming individuals, developing a culture that drives out fear, thinking long-term, choosing the most reliable rather than the cheapest suppliers, and training people on the job. These ideas were subsequently taken up by South East Asian, US, and European companies.

Quality approaches have developed over time. Quality departments that inspected the quality of other people’s goods morphed into quality control, which encouraged feedback on the causes of defects and necessary corrective action. Quality-assurance programs introduced quality management systems to manage product manufacture and service provision. Various procedural standards, such as ISO 9000, aimed to certify that firms were adopting best practices for quality improvement (Dale & Cooper, 1982). TQM focused less on doing things by the book and more on engaging hearts and minds and empowering workers. Furthermore, TQM worked with suppliers, employees, and customers to improve quality continuously (Oakland, 1989).

The advantages of TQM are widely recognized and it has been instituted in many ­companies, but its success has been debated. Some employers, notably those in small- and ­medium-sized firms, remain suspicious of the bureaucratic and resource-intensive nature of implementing quality standards like ISO 9000 (Briscoe et al., 2005). Zairi (1996) concluded that quality programs had worked for the majority of people in his survey, as most reported higher product turnover and higher profit per employee than the industry average. However, after a review of successes and failures, Hill & Wilkinson (1995) concluded that most UK TQM initiatives failed. They suggested that a number of organizations were going through the motions but were not transforming sufficiently or granting sufficient resources to the exercise to derive meaningful long-term benefits. In addition, not all employees adopt TQM procedures; Garrahan & Stewart (1992) argue that Nissan’s Neighbor Check code, for example, introduced a form of scrutiny and social control that workers found stressful.

Notions of continuous and incremental improvement are central to TQM and to other recent OD methodologies like lean management and Six Sigma (Bhuiyan & Baghel, 1999). Six Sigma is a quality-engineering process that is popular in manufacturing. Focusing on human errors, this methodology is linked to continuous improvement and organizational change (Dale et al., 2000). Lean manufacturing draws inspiration from Japanese manufacturing techniques. It focuses on removing waste, getting things right the first time, and just-in-time inventory management (Womack et al., 1990). Hines et al. (2004) offer a review.

Writers such as Harding (1995) place greater emphasis on learning as a central process in positive quality initiatives. For example, the European Foundation for Quality Management’s Business Excellence model offers a self-assessment tool. This is based on a results-oriented, customer-focused model that encourages involvement, innovation, partnership, and learning. It involves collecting data on a number of processes and identifying strengths, areas for improvement, key opportunities, plans for implementing actions that arise from the exercise, and periodic reviews. Advocates like Oakland et al. (2002) argue that the model provides a framework that helps organizations pursue comprehensively excellent performance. Critics argue that this type of assessment process misses the more critical factors of engaging staff and honing processes (Dale et al., 2006).





15.8.2 Radical change


Organizational-change methods that come into prominence often reflect a development of the time. Knowledge engineering, for example, came to the fore as computer access and storage took a major leap forward.

Business process reengineering (BPR) emerged with the introduction of new ICT capabilities that became central to business endeavor. It offers a radical approach to organizational change, focused on fundamentally redesigning existing processes around outcomes by simplifying them and removing redundant stages, personnel, and even departments (Ventrakamen, 1994). It has become associated with downsizing, but Hammer (1990) argued for its potential to enhance value, and gives examples such as substantial savings on Ford’s accounts-payment department. However, Davenport & Stockard (1994) point out how difficult it is to treat an existing company as if it were a clean slate and redesign processes from scratch. Even Champy, one of the originators of BPR, admits only a small proportion of reengineering processes work well. On the other hand, Pascale (in Henry et al., 2002b) contends that 80% of all organizational-change programs fail.

Those commissioning organizational-change programs sometimes construe successful innovation as a matter of removing blocks. This approach to innovation is rarely sufficient. While it is possible to tackle many blocks to efficient production and it is prudent to investigate the likely market for potential innovations, it is difficult to anticipate with any degree of certainty whether radical innovations will be successful. Rather, organizations gain value more reliably by creating an environment that is more conducive to the emergence of ­creativity and innovation.





15.9 Conclusion


In order to develop and sustain creativity, an organization generally needs a relatively open climate, empowered staff, a responsive and flexible structure, integrated procedures, idea-development systems, and good external partnerships. Some of the main ways of achieving these goals include opening up the organizational culture, developing a responsive structure, pushing responsibility down, nurturing ideas, integrating procedures, continuously improving processes, and communicating internally and with like-minded partners and customers.

There are has been quite a lot of research on technological innovation and product-development processes in manufacturing, and a fair amount of attention has been given to small business. The application of organizational change for creativity and innovation in other areas, such as the public or not-for-profit sectors and the service industries, has ­received less attention and deserves more. Equally, it would be useful to conduct studies focused on how creative change works in more hierarchical cultures. Procedures and methods developed in Anglo-Saxon and individualistic cultures characterized by openness, high employee participation in decision-making, and an emphasis on engaging intrinsic motivation and encouraging empowerment may not be as effective in work cultures that are less sympathetic to these features.





References


Abernathy, W.J. & Utterback, J.M. (1988). Patterns of industrial innovation. In M.L. Tushman & W.L. Moore, editors. Readings in the Management of Innovation. London: Harper Business. pp. 25–33.

Amabile, T. (1983). The Social Psychology of Creativity. New York: Springer-Verlag.

Amabile, T. & Gryskiewicz, S. (1988). Creative human resources in the R&D laboratory: how environment and personality affect innovation. In R. Kuhn. Handbook for Creativity and Innovation. New York: McGraw Hill. pp. 501–524.

Argyris, C. & Schön, D. (1978). Organisational Learning: A Theory of Action Perspective. Reading, MA: Addison Wesley.

Ball, K. (2010). Workplace surveillance: an overview. Labour History, 51(1), 87–106.

Bartlett, C.A. & Ghosal, S. (1995). Rebuilding behavioural context: turn process engineering into people rejuvenation. Sloan Management Review, Fall, 37(1), 11–23.

Beer, S. (1981). The Brain of the Firm. Chichester: Wiley.

Bhuiyan, N. & Baghel, A. (2005). An overview of continuous improvement. Management Decision, 43(5), 761–771

Bolton, J. (1971). Small Firms: Report of the Committee on Enquiry on Small Firms. CMND4811. London: HMSO.

Briscoe, J.A., Fawcett, S.E., & Todd, R.H. (2005). The implementation and impact of ISO9000 among small manufacturing enterprises. Journal of Small Business Management, 43(3), 309–330.

Camp, R. (1989). Benchmarking: the search for industry best practices that lead to superior performance. Milwaukee, WI: Quality Press.

Chesbrough, H. (2003). The era of open innovation. Sloan Management Review, 44(3), 35–41.

Csikszentmihalyi, M. (1996). Creativity: Flow and the Psychology of Discovery and Invention. New York: HarperCollins.

Cummings, L., Hinton, B.L. & Gobdel, B.C. (1975). Creative behaviour as a function of task environment: impact of objectives, procedures and controls. Academy of Management Journal, 18(3), 489–499.

Dale, B.G., Zairi, M., van der Wiele, A., & Williams, A.R.T. (2000). Quality is dead in Europe—long live excellence: true or false? Measuring Business Excellence, 4(3), 4–10.

Dale, B.G. & Cooper, C. (1992). Total Quality and Human Resources: An Executive Guide. Oxford: Blackwell.

De Bono, E. (1984). Lateral Thinking for Management. Harmondsworth, UK: Penguin.

Davenport, T. & Stoddard, D. (1994). Reengineering: business change of mythic proportions? Management Information Systems, 18(2), 121–127.

Deming, W.E. (1987). Improvement of quality and productivity through action by management. In Tushman, M.L. & Moore, W.L., editors. Readings in the Management of Innovation. London: Harper Business. pp. 454–465

Ekvall, G. (1991). The organisational culture of idea-management: a creative climate for the management of ideas. In J. Henry & D. Walker. Managing Innovation. London: Sage. pp. 73–80.

Ekvall, G. (1997). Organisational conditions and level of creativity. Creativity and Innovation Management, 6(4), 195–205

Euske, K.J. & Player, R.S. (1996). Leveraging management improvement techniques. Sloan Management Review, Fall, 69–79.

Fogden (1999). Managing change in the employment service. In J. Henry. Creativity, Innovation and Change Readings. Milton Keynes, UK: Open University Press.

Foster, R.N. (1986). Innovation: The Attacker’s Advantage. New York: Summit Books.

Fukuyama, F. (1999). The Great Disruption. London: Profile Books.

Garrahan, P. & Stewart, P. (1992). The Nissan Enigma. London: Mansell.

Garvin, G. (1993). Building a learning organisation. Harvard Business Review, 71(4), 78–92.

Gray, C. (1993). Small business growth and owner’s motivation. In J. Henry. Creative Management Readings. Milton Keynes, UK: Open University.

Guildford, J. (1959). Traits of creativity. In H. Anderson. Creativity and its Cultivation. New York: John Wiley & Sons. pp. 142–161.

Hammer, M. (1990). Reengineering don’t automate, obliterate. In J. Henry & D. Mayle, editors (2002). Managing Innovation and Change. London: Sage. pp. 258–264

Hammer, M. & Champy, J. (1994). Reengineering the Corporation: A Manifesto for Business Revolution. London: Nicholas Brealey.

Harding, R. (1999). Bridging the total quality/continuous improvement gap. In J. Henry et al., editors. Creativity, Innovation and Change Readings. Milton Keynes, UK: Open University.

Handy, C. (1995). Trust and the virtual organization. Harvard Business Review, May/June, 40–50.

Harvey-Jones, J. (1988). Making it Happen: Reflections on Leadership. London: HarperCollins.

Henry, J. (1991). Creative Management. London: Sage.

Henry, J. (1992). Creative Management Media Book. Milton Keynes, UK: Open University.

Henry, J. (1994). The nature and development of creativity. Co-Design, Autumn, 18–25.

Henry, J. (2001). Creativity and Perception in Management. London: Sage.

Henry, J. (2006). Creative Management and Development, 3rd Edition. London: Sage.

Henry, J., Gardiner, P. Grugulis, I., & Mayle, D. (2002a). Organising for Innovation. Milton Keynes, UK: Open University.

Henry, J., Goodwin, B., Pascale, R., & Stacy, R. (2002b). Complexity. Creativity, Innovation and Change. Audio CD 2. Milton Keynes, UK: Open University.

Hill, S. & Wilkinson, A. (1995). In search of TQM. Employee Relations, 17(3), 7–25.

Hines, P., Holweg, M., & Rich, N. (2004). Learning to evolve? International Journal of Operations & Production Management, 24(10), 994–1101.

Holt, K. (1991). What is the best way of organising projects? In J. Henry & D. Walker. Managing Innovation. London: Sage. pp. 89–96.

Holden, R. (1996). A glimpse of what could be: a pilot initiative in non-work related learning. Personnel Review, 25(3), 53–71.

Jelinek, M. & Schoonhaven, C.B. (1991). Strong culture and its consequences. In M. Jelinek & C.B. Schoonhoven. The Innovation Marathon. Oxford: Blackwell. pp. 367–402.

Jones, G. (1988). Management and Culture. Milton Keynes, UK: Open University.

Kanter, R.M. (1988). The Change Masters: Corporate Entrepreneurs at Work. London: Unwin.

Kaufmann, G. (1988). Problem solving and creativity. In K. Gronhaug & G. Kaufmann, Innovation: A Cross-disciplinary Perspective. Oslo: Norwegian University Press.

Kay, J. (1998). Why the last shall be the first to fade away. Financial Times, May 13, 1998.

Keenoy, T. & Anthony, P. (1992). HRM: metaphor, meaning and morality. In P. Blyton & P. Turnbull, editors. Reassessing Human Resource Management. London: Sage. Chapter 14. pp. 233–255.

Kennedy, P. (1993). Preparing for the Twenty-First Century. London: HarperCollins.

Keong, Y.K. (2000). You are Creative. Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia: Mindbloom.

Koestler, A. (1969). The Act of Creation. Aylesbury, UK: Pan.

Legge, K. (1994). Managing culture: fact or fiction? In K. Sissons, editor. Personnel Management, 2nd edition. Oxford: Blackwell. Chapter 12.

Lewes, K. & Lytton, S. (1995). How to Transform your Company and Enjoy It! Oxford: Management Books.

Lovins, A., Lovins, H., & Hawken, P. (1999). Natural capitalism. In J. Henry (2001). Creative Management and Development. London: Sage. pp. 218–234.

Maidique, M. (1990). Entrepreneurs, champions and technological innovation. Sloan Management Review, Winter, 59–76.

Mitchell, R. (1989). Masters of innovation: how 3M keeps its products coming. Business Week, April 10, 58–63.

Morita, A. (1988). Made in Japan. Glasgow, UK: Fontana.

Mulgan, G. & Briscoe, I. (1996). The society of networks. Demos, 8, 29–30.

Nayak, P.R. & Ketteringham, J.M. (1991). 3M’s little yellow note pads. In P.R. Nayak & J.M. Ketteringham. Breakthroughs! New York: Arthur Little. Chapter 3. pp. 53–69.

Nonaka, I. & Takeuchi, H. (1995). The Knowledge-creating Company. Oxford: Oxford University Press.

Nohria, N. & Eccles, R.G. (1992). Networks and Organizations. Boston, MA: Harvard Business School.

Oakland, J.S. (1989). Total Quality Management. London: Heinemann.

Oakland, J.S., Tanner, S., & Gadd, K. (2002). Best practice in business excellence. Total Quality Management, 13(8), 1125–1139.

Parker, M. (1991). Creating Shared Vision. Clarendon Hills, IL: Dialog International.

Pascale, R. (1990). Managing on the Edge. London: Penguin.

Pedlar, M., Burgoyne, J., & Boydell, T. (1991). The Learning Company. London: McGraw-Hill.

Perkins, D. (1981). The Mind’s Best Work. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.

Peters, T. (1988). Thriving on Chaos: Handbook for a Management Revolution. London: Pan.

Peters, T. & Waterman, R.H. (1982). In Search of Excellence. London: Harper and Row.

Revans, R.W. (1969). The enterprise as a learning system. In Revans, R.W. (1982). The Origins and Growth of Action Learning. Bromley, UK: Chartwell-Bratt.

Rickards, T. (1999). Creativity and the Management of Change. Oxford: Blackwell.

Robertson, P.J., Roberts, D.R., & Porras, J.I. (1992). An evaluation of a model of planned organizational change: evidence from a meta-analysis. In R.W. Woodman & W.A. Pasmore, editors. Research in Organizational Change and Development, vol. 7. Greenwich, CT: JAI Press. pp. 1–39.

Rosenfeld, R. & Servo, J.C. (1991). Facilitating innovation in large organizations. In M.A. West & J.L. Farr. Innovation and Creativity at Work. Chichester: John Wiley & Sons. pp. 251–263.

Rothwell, R. (1994). Towards the fifth-generation innovation process. International Marketing Review, 11(1), 7–31.

Schon, D. (1963). Champions for radical new inventions. Harvard Business Review, 41(2), 77–86.

Schroeder, D. & Robinson, A. (1991). America’s most successful export to Japan—continuous improvement programmes. Sloan Management Review, 32(3), 67–81.

Semler, R. (1994). Why my former employees still work for me. Harvard Business Review, 72(1), 64–74.

Semler, R. (1996). Maverick. London: Arrow.

Senge, P. (1991). The Art and Practice of the Fifth Discipline. London: Century.

Simon, H. (1988). Understanding creativity and creative management. In R. Kuhn. Handbook for Creative and Innovative Managers. New York: McGraw-Hill.

Stacy, R. (1996). Complexity and Creativity in Organizations. San Francisco, CA: Brett-Koehler.

Tidd, J. & Bessant, J. (2009). Managing Innovation: Integrating Technological, Market and Organizational Change, 4th edition. Chichester: John Wiley & Sons.

Tidd, J., Bessant, J., & Parvitt, K. (1997). Managing Innovation. London: John Wiley & Sons.

Toyoda, E. (1987). Fifty Years in Motion. New York: Kodansha.

Tsang, E.W.K. (1997). Organizational learning and the learning organization: a dichotomy between descriptive and prescriptive research. Human Relations, 50(1), 73–89.

Van Gundy, A. (1988). Techniques of Structured Problem-solving. New York: Van Nostrand Rheinhold.

Venkatraman, N. (1994). The challenge for strategists. In M. Scott-Morton. The Corporation of the 1990s. New York: Oxford University Press. Chapter 5. pp. 127–128.

Wack, P. (1985). Scenarios: uncharted waters ahead. Harvard Business Review, September–October, 73–89.

Watson, T.J. (1994). In Search of Management: Culture, Chaos and Control in Managerial Work. London: Routledge.

Wenger, E. (1998). Communities of Practice. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.

West, M.A. (2002). Sparkling fountains or stagnant ponds: an integrative model of creativity and innovation implementation in work groups. Applied Psychology: An International Review, 51(3), 355–424.

West, M.A. & Anderson, N.R. (1996). Innovation in top management teams. Journal of Applied Psychology, 81(6), 680–693.

West, M.A. & Farr, J. (1990). Creativity and Innovation at Work. Chichester: John Wiley & Sons.

Wheatley, M. (1994). Leadership and the New Science. San Francisco, CA: Brett-Koehler.

Womack, J.P. & Jones, D.T. (1994). From lean production to lean enterprise. Harvard Business Review, March–April, 93–103.

Womack, J.P., Jones, D.T., & Roos, D. (1990). The Machine that Changed the World. New York: Rawson Associates.

Zairi, M. (1996). Benchmarking for Best Practice. Oxford: Butterworth Heinemann.

Zhou, J. (2003). When the presence of co-workers is related to creativity: role of supervisor close monitoring, developmental feedback and creative personality. Journal of Applied Psychology, 88(3), 413–422.





16


Individual Readiness for Organizational Change


Myungweon Choi and Wendy E.A. Ruona





16.1 Introduction


No organization today exists in a stable environment. Current scholars, especially the ­proponents of complexity theories, consider that all organizations are under the influence of multiple changes (Brown & Eisenhardt, 1997; Burnes, 2004a; Stacey et al., 2002; Styhre, 2002; Tetenbaum, 1998). According to these scholars, change is inherent in human action and therefore necessarily occurs in any context of human social interactions (Ford & Ford, 1995). As organizations are sites of continuously evolving human action, they are in a continuous state of change and, in order to survive, must develop the ability to continuously change themselves (Burnes, 2004b; Tsoukas & Chia, 2002).

Organizational leaders are thus continually charged with introducing and implementing various initiatives to change their organizations. The problem is that in reality many change efforts do not result in their intended aims. Specifically, researchers have estimated that at least two-thirds of change projects fail (Beer & Nohria, 2000a, 2000b; Burke & Biggart, 1997; Burnes, 2004c). The cause of many organizations’ inability to achieve the intended aims of their change efforts is often considered an implementation failure, rather than a flaw innate in the change initiative itself (Klein & Sorra, 1996). In particular, failures are often attributed to an organization’s inability to provide for an effective unfreezing process (Lewin, 1997) before attempting a change induction (Kotter, 1995, 1996; Schein, 1987, 1999b).

Individual readiness for organizational change—which is defined as the extent to which an individual believes that a change is needed and that he or she has the capacity for the change (Armenakis et al., 1993; Eby et al., 2000; Jansen, 2000; Jones et al., 2005)—is increasingly important in this context. The purpose of this chapter is to review the idea underlying the construct of individual readiness for organizational change (henceforth, “readiness for change”) and discuss its implications for organizational change research. For this purpose, this chapter evaluates the common use of the term “resistance to change” and reconceptualizes organizational members’ attitudes towards organizational change, focusing on the concept of individual readiness for organizational change.





16.2 Challenges to the Concept of Resistance to Change


Traditionally, individuals’ attitudes towards organizational change have often been ­conceptualized as resistance to change, which has long been considered a barrier to ­organizational change attempts (Dent & Goldberg, 1999a; Jermier et al., 1994). However, some recent researchers have begun to criticize the prevalent view on resistance to change and suggest a need for a multifaceted perspective on individuals’ attitudes towards organizational change. In this section, the three most researched topics on this issue are reviewed: the positive aspect of resistance, the situational causes of resistance, and resistance created by change agents.





16.2.1 Positive aspect of resistance


Resistance to change has been viewed as an obstacle that change recipients (usually employees) present to change initiatives and as something that must be overcome. What is implicit in this view is that the change agent (usually management) is right and change recipients are wrong when it comes to change.

However, some researchers have argued that individuals’ reactions to change are not necessarily dysfunctional obstacles or liabilities to successful change. Rather, according to the researchers, resistance can raise awareness and add momentum for change (Ford et al., 2008), provide a feedback mechanism vital to the change process (Klein, 1985), and serve as a source of information for the development of more effective change efforts (Knowles & Linn, 2004; Piderit, 2000; Waddell & Sohal, 1998). From this point of view, resistance to change can serve as an asset and a resource in the implementation and successful accomplishment of change, and we need to carefully examine it, rather than take it as given or ignore it.





16.2.2 Situational causes of resistance


As Knowles & Linn (2004) noted, depending on the context, the source of psychological resistance can be attributed either to the person or to the situation. Organizational researchers have shown that resistance in the context of organizational change is more often attributed to the situation than to the person. For example, Kotter (1995) showed that employees often understand the new vision and want to make it happen when organizations attempt a major change. However, according to Kotter, obstacles to change often reside in the organization’s structure and in its system—for example, performance evaluation, compensation, and succession planning—that are not aligned with the desired new behavior. These force people to “choose between the new vision and their own self-interest” (p. 64).

At least two lines of research have supported the idea that resistance in the context of organizational change is often attributed to the situation specific to a change. As Burke (2008) noted, some researchers stress that resistance to change comes from ­experiencing a lack of choice (i.e. the imposition of change) or from being forced to move to some new state of being and acting. The concept of reactance helps to explain this human phenomenon. Psychological reactance theory says that when a person senses that someone else is limiting his or her freedom to choose or act, an uncomfortable state of reactance arises, creating motivation to reassert that freedom (Brehm & Brehm, 1981). The more important the freedoms threatened or the more arbitrary (i.e. not legitimate), ­blatant, direct, and demanding the threat, the greater the reactance (Fuegen & Brehm, 2004; Knowles & Linn, 2004). According to these researchers, individuals are not simply and naturally resistant to change. Rather, they resist the imposition of change, or the way change is imposed upon them.

Another view, based on empirical studies of various constructs related to individuals’ attitudes towards organizational change—such as readiness for change (e.g. Eby et al., 2000), commitment to change (e.g. Herscovitch & Meyer, 2002), openness to change (e.g. Wanberg & Banas, 2000), and cynicism about organizational change (e.g. Wanous et al., 2000)—is that the formation of these constructs is influenced by various factors specific to a given situation. In particular, researchers have reported that contextual factors—for example, justice perception (Bernerth et al., 2007; Caldwell et al., 2004; ­Fedor et al., 2006), participation in the change process (Brown & Cregan, 2008; Devos et al., 2007; Reichers et al., 1997; Wanberg & Banas, 2000; Wanous et al., 2000), ­information-sharing (Brown & Cregan, 2008; Wanberg & Banas, 2000), trust in management (Devos et al., 2007), and experience with previous change projects (Devos et al., 2007; Wanous et al., 2000)—greatly influence attitudinal reactions to organizational change. These studies indicate that individuals’ attitudes towards organizational change are not a personality-based predisposition. Rather, they are a learned response, shaped by the specific context (Choi, 2011).





16.2.3 Resistance created by change agents


Some researchers with a social constructionist viewpoint challenge the idea that resistance represents objective phenomena that exist independent of change agents. Rather, they contend that change agents create resistance by expecting resistance (Dent & Goldberg, 1999a; Ford et al., 2002, 2008). According to these authors, change requires both change agents and change recipients to engage in sense-making (Weick, 1995). When change is attempted, change agents try to determine, “How will this get accomplished?”, while change recipients try to determine, “What will happen to me?” (Ford et al., 2008; Gioia et al., 1994). If change agents expect that resistance to change is natural and inevitable, a self-fulfilling prophecy may emerge. By shaping the very phenomenon to which they are paying attention, change agents’ expectation predisposes them to look for resistance and to make sense of others’ actions in such a way as to confirm that expectation, thereby ­reaffirming their belief that change recipients resist change (Dent & Goldberg, 1999a; Ford et al., 2008). When change agents go into a change situation expecting resistance, they are likely to act in a way that promotes resistance, much as teachers who expect students to underperform convey this lack of confidence in their ability, so that the students do indeed perform poorly (Rosenthal & Jacobson, 1992).





16.2.4 Evaluation of the concept of resistance


Kurt Lewin’s idea of resistance is helpful in evaluating the common use of the term ­“resistance to change.” Lewin (1997) conceived of resistance as a restraining force moving in the direction of maintaining the status quo in opposition to a force pushing for change. According to this perspective, resistance is a systemic phenomenon rather than an individual predisposition. However, since Lewin’s conceptualization, resistance has come to be seen largely as a psychological phenomenon that a change recipient experiences. It is often used to justify organizations’ failings, through blaming individuals for the unsatisfactory results of change efforts (Dent & Goldberg, 1999a, 1999b; Ford et al., 2002, 2008; Krantz, 1999; Maurer, 2006).

As has been noted, resistance is not a personality-based predisposition. When confronted with the possibility of change, most of us are likely to be ambivalent (Burke, 2008; Piderit, 2000), and our attitudes are shaped based on the contextual factors specific to a given situation. These attitudes may contain rich information concerning the change implementation. Furthermore, as stated in Section 16.2.3, recent research even urges us to reconsider the role change agents play in creating resistance (Dent & Goldberg, 1999a; Ford et al., 2008). Therefore, it is necessary for us to shift our attention to the overall system of change and to make a more valid conceptualization of individuals’ attitudes towards change.





16.3 Reconceptualizing Individuals’ Attitudes Towards Organizational Change


After reviewing the criticism of the traditional view of resistance to change, the following question arose: Is there another way to understand individuals’ attitudes towards organizational change? While the tenets of resistance to change have been challenged, some researchers have begun stressing other constructs, such as readiness for change (e.g. Eby et al., 2000), commitment to change (e.g. Herscovitch & Meyer, 2002), openness to change (e.g. Wanberg & Banas, 2000), and cynicism about organizational change (e.g. Wanous et al., 2000). This chapter focuses on one of these constructs, readiness for change, because it is comprehensive and it captures Lewin’s (1997) idea of unfreezing well (Armenakis et al., 1993; Choi & Ruona, 2011; Eby et al., 2000).





16.3.1 Lewin’s idea of the unfreezing step


According to Lewin (1997), a particular set of behaviors is the result of two groups of forces: those striving to maintain the status quo and those pushing for change. When both sets of forces are equal, current behaviors are maintained in a state Lewin called “quasi-­stationary equilibrium,” supported by a large force field of driving and restraining forces. To change the behaviors—to successfully discard an old behavior and adopt a new one—one needs to unfreeze the equilibrium between the two sets of forces, by increasing the forces pushing for change and/or by decreasing those forces maintaining the current state.

Building on Lewin’s idea of unfreezing, Schein (1999a) identified three conditions that are necessary to achieve unfreezing: disconfirmation of the validity of the status quo, induction of survival anxiety, and creation of psychological safety. Disconfirmation of the validity of the status quo functions as a primary driving force and is a prerequisite for the acceptance of new environmental circumstances requiring creative and generative learning. However, one can ignore the disconfirming information or deny its validity, unless it arouses survival anxiety—the feeling that if we do not change, we will fail to meet our needs or fail to achieve some goals or ideals that we have set for ourselves. In addition, the need to create psychological safety is even more critical because “unless sufficient psychological safety is created, the disconfirming information will be denied or in other ways defended against, no survival anxiety will be felt, and consequently, no change will take place” (Schein, 1999a, p. 61). In fact, the goal of various activities for change management is to create psychological safety (Schein, 1999a). In sum, in order to unfreeze the equilibrium, it is necessary to balance the amount of threat produced by disconfirming data with enough psychological safety to allow the change recipient to accept the information, feel the survival anxiety, and become motivated to change. Through these processes, organizational members’ beliefs and attitudes about a change can be altered, and they may perceive the change as necessary and as likely to be successful (Armenakis et al., 1993).

While Lewin (1997) thought that all three of his steps—unfreezing, moving, and ­refreezing—were critical to a successful change project, the reason so many change efforts fail is often attributed to an organization’s inability to provide for an effective unfreezing process before attempting a change induction (Kotter, 1995, 1996; Schein, 1987, 1999b). In fact, most organizational change models suggest that efforts to build momentum, to “warm-up” or “defrost” organizational members to the need for change, or to gain buy-in for the change initiative (Armenakis et al., 1993; Kotter, 1996; Schein, 1987, 1999a) are necessary to increase driving forces and/or decrease restraining forces and, therefore, are critical components for any successful change initiative.





16.3.2 The unfreezing step and individuals’ attitudes towards organizational change


“Attitude” refers to a person’s overall evaluation of people, objects, and issues. More ­specifically, it refers to how favorably or unfavorably, or how positively or negatively in general one views some object of judgment (Petty & Wegener, 1998). Therefore, ­attitudes towards an organizational change can be defined as an individual’s overall favorable/positive or unfavorable/negative evaluative judgment of a change initiative implemented by an organization (Lines, 2005).

As is widely acknowledged, it is important to separate general attitudes from specific ones (Fisher, 1980). In organizations, a person may have a general attitude towards change but at the same time possess different attitudes about particular changes. While the former may be more related to personality, the latter tends to be determined largely by the context (Katz & Kahn, 1978; Lau & Woodman, 1995). In other words, even though a person is supportive of and open to organizational change in general, his or her attitudes about a specific change being undertaken may vary depending on how he or she evaluates the contexts and the issues involved. Schein (1999a) suggested that individuals will form their attitudes towards a change based on the disconfirming information, survival anxiety, and psychological safety created in a situation specific to the change. In this respect, individuals’ attitudes towards a specific organizational change can be a measure of how effectively the organization has achieved the unfreezing process.

Recently, researchers have proposed several constructs reflecting this notion of unfreezing, including commitment to change, openness to change, cynicism about organizational change, and readiness for change (Choi, 2011). Commitment to change is defined as “a force (mind-set) that binds an individual to a course of action deemed necessary for the successful implementation of a change initiative” (Herscovitch & Meyer, 2002, p. 475). Openness to change has been defined as both willingness to support the change and positive affect about the potential consequences of the change (Miller et al., 1994; ­Wanberg & Banas, 2000). Cynicism about organizational change is defined as “a ­pessimistic viewpoint about change efforts being successful because those responsible for making changes are blamed for being unmotivated, incompetent, or both” (Wanous et al., 2000, p. 133). Finally, readiness for change is defined as organizational members’ belief in the organization’s capacity for making a successful change, the extent to which the change is needed, and the benefits the organization and its members can gain from the change ­(Armenakis et al., 1993; Holt et al., 2007). These constructs are similar in that they all reflect an individual’s overall positive or negative evaluative judgment of a specific change initiative (Choi, 2011). In addition, they are defined as the cognitive precursors to the behavioral support for a change effort.

Despite their commonalities, however, these four constructs focus on slightly different aspects of individuals’ attitudes towards organizational change and differ in the range of phenomena they capture (Choi, 2011). For example, the subconstructs of commitment to change include a belief in the inherent benefits of the change, a sense of obligation to ­provide support for the change, and a recognition of the costs associated with failure to support the change (Herscovitch & Meyer, 2002; Meyer et al., 2007). On the other hand, cynicism about organizational change focuses particularly on management capability and support for the change (Bernerth et al., 2007; Bommer et al., 2005; Reichers et al., 1997; Wanous et al., 2000). Among the aforementioned constructs, readiness for change is the most comprehensive, in that it captures various aspects of individuals’ attitudes towards organizational change, including their belief in the change-specific efficacy, appropriateness of the change, management support for the change, and personal benefit from the change (Armenakis et al., 1993; Choi & Ruona, 2011; Eby et al., 2000; Holt et al., 2007).





16.3.3 Defining individual readiness for organizational change


Initially, studies on individual readiness for change were published primarily in the health and medical literature (e.g. Block & Keller, 1998; Joe et al., 1998; Mayer, 1975; Morera et al., 1998; Prochaska et al., 1997). These studies usually focused on ceasing harmful health behaviors such as smoking and drug abuse and starting positive ones such as exercise, weight management, and eating nutritional meals. Individual readiness in this context is concerned with the extent to which an individual perceives a change as needed and whether he or she has the capacity for the change (Choi & Ruona, 2011).

Although individual readiness is clearly an individual-level construct, it requires a consideration of the organizational context when it is applied to organizational settings (Jansen, 2000). Organizational change is a situation that interrupts the normal patterns of an organization (Ford et al., 2008). In such a situation, in order to make sense of the new environment and to draw conclusions about its possible outcomes, individuals are actively involved in information-seeking, meaning-ascription, and assumption-making about the change process (Ford et al., 2008; Gioia et al., 1994). As a result, individuals form assumptions, expectations, and impressions about the change, which make up individual readiness for change in the organizational change context.

Researchers have defined individual readiness for organizational change in slightly different ways (Choi & Ruona, 2011). For example, Armenakis et al. (1993) and Jansen (2000) defined it in terms of the necessity of a specific change initiative and the ­organizational capacity to implement it successfully. Specifically, Armenakis et al. (1993) defined it as ­individuals’ beliefs, attitudes, and intentions regarding the extent to which changes are needed and the organization’s capacity to successfully make those changes. Jansen (2000) defined it as the extent to which individuals perceive an organization as being capable of making the change and the change as needed. Similarly, Eby et al. (2000) contended that individual readiness in the context of organizational change is related to the belief that the change is “both necessary and likely to be successful” (p. 422). On the other hand, Jones et al. (2005) additionally emphasized an individual’s belief in the benefits of the change. Nevertheless, these researchers all agree that individual readiness for organizational change involves an evaluation of the individual and organizational capacity for making a successful change, the need for the change, and the benefits the organization and its members might gain from the change (Armenakis et al., 1993; Eby et al., 2000; Holt et al., 2007; Jansen, 2000).

As some researchers have noted, the definitions of individual readiness for organizational change are conceptually similar to Lewin’s (1997) notion of the unfreezing step (Armenakis et al., 1993; Choi & Ruona, 2011; Eby et al., 2000). The unfreezing step in the organizational change context includes the process by which organizational members’ attitudes about a change initiative are altered in such a way that they perceive the change as necessary and as likely to be successful (Armenakis et al., 1993; Eby et al., 2000; Schein, 1999a). In this respect, when individuals become ready for a change initiative, this indicates that the unfreezing step has been successful.

In a similar vein, Rogers (2003) endorsed the importance of individual readiness for change in the innovation–decision process model. According to this model, individuals develop a favorable or unfavorable attitude towards an innovation in the persuasion stage based on prior conditions (previous practice, felt needs/problems, innovativeness, norms of the social systems) as well as on the knowledge they gained through the previous stage (knowledge stage). Rogers stressed that individuals’ attitudes towards an innovation formed in the persuasion stage affect the decision, implementation, and confirmation of the adoption of an innovation. By explaining the formation of ­individuals’ attitudes towards an innovation and emphasizing their role in innovation adoption, Rogers’ model also highlights the importance and relevance of individual readiness in the context of organizational change. In addition, Hall & Hord (1987) dealt with the core ideas of individual readiness for organizational change in their concern-based adoption model. The main premise underlying this is that a change initiative can be more successful if the concerns of those affected by it are considered. Concerns in their model are defined as “the composite representation of the feelings, preoccupation, thought, and consideration given to a particular issue or task” (p. 59) and develop through the stages including awareness, informational, personal, and consequence. These stages in Hall & Hord’s model are similar to the subconstructs of individual ­readiness for organizational change proposed by researchers (Armenakis et al., 1993; Eby et al., 2000; Holt et al., 2007).





16.3.4 Research on individual readiness for organizational change


Some researchers have conducted empirical studies on individual readiness for organizational change. These studies are usually concerned with the factors that contribute to increasing the level of individual readiness for change. Specifically, they show that individual readiness for organizational change increases when: (1) individuals believe in organizational ability to accommodate changing situations (Eby et al., 2000; Jones et al., 2005); (2) policies supporting change exist (Eby et al., 2000; McNabb & Sepic, 1995; Rafferty & Simons, 2006); (3) social relationships exist within the organization (Hanpachern et al., 1998; Jones et al., 2005; Madsen et al., 2005); (4) trust exists ­between peers and with leaders (Rafferty & Simons, 2006); and (5) organizational members participate at work (Eby et al., 2000; Jones et al., 2005). In addition, ­relationships have been reported between readiness for change and individual-level ­variables such as change self-efficacy (Cunningham et al., 2002; Kwahk & Lee, 2008; Rafferty & Simons, 2006), organizational commitment (Kwahk & Kim, 2008; Kwahk & Lee, 2008; Madsen et al., 2005), perceived personal competence (Kwahk & Kim, 2008), and job satisfaction (McNabb & Sepic, 1995). These studies also demonstrate that job characteristics such as decision latitude and control over challenging tasks (Cunningham et al., 2002) are related to readiness for change. As the studies illustrate, individual readiness for organizational change is shaped by various ­contextual factors in a given situation.

Furthermore, a few studies have shown that individual readiness for change is actually related to support for or participation in change implementation (e.g. Cunningham et al., 2002; Jones et al., 2005; Meyer et al., 2007; Weeks et al., 2004). For example, ­Cunningham et al. (2002) showed that individuals who felt more committed to change at the early stage of a change initiative participated in more activities at later stages than those who were less committed to change. Similarly, Jones et al. (2005) showed that individuals who ­reported higher levels of readiness for change at the pre-implementation stage ­contributed more to the success of change implementation at the implementation and post-implementation stages.

Some research studies have focused on the effects of personality on one’s attitude towards organizational change. These studies have reported mixed results regarding the influence of personality variables on attitudes toward organizational change. For example, some studies have suggested that personality variables such as locus of control, work ­motivation, self-esteem, and optimism are significantly related to attitudes towards organizational change (e.g. Chen & Wang, 2007; Elias, 2009; Judge et al., 1999; Wanberg & Banas, 2000), while others have indicated that these variables do not have a significant relationship with readiness for change (e.g. Devos et al., 2001; Wanous et al., 2000).

As has been explained, it is important to separate general attitudes from specific ones (Eagly & Chaiken, 1993; Fisher, 1980; Katz & Kahn, 1978). While the former may depend on personal needs and values, the latter are determined largely by one’s experience within the organizational context (Katz & Kahn, 1978; Lau & Woodman, 1995). Individual readiness for organizational change, as defined in this chapter, should be understood as an attitude about a specific change, and not as general attitudes towards change. It is directed at a specific change initiative and has been conceptualized as an attitude towards a specific change (Armenakis & Bedeian, 1999; Holt et al., 2007; Jansen, 2000). Therefore, negative attitudes toward particular organizational change—or low levels of readiness for change—are not simply the feelings that negative people bring into the organization. While personality may have an effect on attitudes towards change in general, its effect may become irrelevant in a specific change ­context, due to the decisive effects of the situational variables (Devos et al., 2001; Wanous et al., 2000). In sum, individual readiness for organizational change is not a personality-based predisposition. It is “shaped by experiences in the work context” (Johnson & ­O’Leary-Kelly, 2003, pp. 640–641) and, therefore, is likely to change as individuals’ experiences change.





16.4 Concluding Remarks


Researchers with a strategic management perspective regard organizational change as a process of implementing corporate strategy devised by organizational leaders and ­decision-makers (Child, 1972; Dunphy, 2000). On the other hand, those who take the organizational development (OD) perspective regard change as a series of intentional efforts to make differences in the organizational work setting in order to enhance individual development and improve organizational performance (Porras & Robertson, 1992). According to Beer & Nohria (2000a, 2000b), these two perspectives are the most fundamental in the organizational change literature and are based on totally different assumptions about the purpose of and means for change. Nevertheless, regardless of the perspective adopted, it cannot be denied that organizations today are required to change themselves incrementally, and in many cases in a fundamental manner.

As Porras & Robertson (1992) contended it is no exaggeration to say that “change in the individual organizational member’s behavior is at the core of organizational change” (p. 724). Organizations only change and act through their members, and successful change will persist over the long term only when individuals alter their on-the-job behaviors in appropriate ways (George & Jones, 2001; Porras & Robertson, 1992). Supporting this idea, many researchers have empirically demonstrated that individuals are not passive recipients of the organizational-level change but rather actors who actively interpret and respond to what is happening in their environments (e.g. Ford & Ford, 1995; Hall & Hord, 1987; Isabella, 1990). Furthermore, a few recent research studies (reviewed in this chapter) have shown that individuals’ attitudes towards an organizational change initiative influence their behavioral support for that change (e.g. Cunningham et al., 2002; Jones et al., 2005; Meyer et al., 2007; Weeks et al., 2004). Individuals’ attitudes towards organizational change have a real impact on change implementation and, therefore, are certainly critical for any organizational change’s success.

As has been noted, the concept of individual readiness for organizational change is found in influential works including those of Lewin (1997), Rogers (2003), and Hall & Hord (1987). Furthermore, the importance of individual readiness for organizational change has been stressed by most change models, ranging from Lewin’s three-step change model, which provides the basis for almost all the OD change models (Cummings & ­Worley, 2005), to Kotter’s change process model (1995, 1996), which exemplifies the strategic management approach to organizational change.





16.4.1 Implications for organizational change research and practice


As researchers with a social constructionist viewpoint contend, organizational change is a situation that interrupts normal patterns of organization (Ford et al., 2008). When faced with organizational change, individuals try to make sense of their new environment and to draw conclusions about its possible outcomes and the implications for them. In order to do this, they extract particular behaviors from leaders and communications specific to the organizational change from streams of ongoing events, interpret them, and act on their interpretation (Ford et al., 2008; Gioia et al., 1994). The research studies reviewed in this chapter show that individual readiness for organizational change is shaped by a range of situational variables. For example, the more individuals regard an organization as having the ability to accommodate changing situations and the more they trust their peers and leaders, the more likely they are to be ready for a change initiative. As individual readiness for organizational change is based on specific organizational experiences, it is likely to change over time as individuals’ experiences change. In this respect, the concept of individual readiness for change can be better conceptualized as states, rather than personality traits (Choi, 2011).

The use of the construct of individual readiness for organizational change gives us advantages over the common use of resistance to change. As discussed earlier, by using the term “resistance to change,” leaders and change agents commonly fail to notice the potentially positive intentions that can motivate negative responses to change (Piderit, 2000). On the other hand, the concept of individual readiness for organizational change assumes that ­individuals’ concerns over change are natural and that there must be reasons for them. ­Furthermore, it is also assumed that change can be more successful if the concerns of change recipients are considered. Therefore, the concept of individual readiness for organizational change helps us pay attention to the key components of such concerns—for example, individuals’ evaluation of management support for and the personal benefit of a specific change initiative—and to their situational causes. In this regard, individual readiness for organizational change is a more practical concept with which to understand individuals’ attitudes towards organizational change than is resistance to change (Choi & Ruona, 2011).

In addition, the use of the construct of individual readiness for organizational change makes a difference to the role of organizational change and development practitioners. The question of “how to foster readiness for change” can bring about different perspectives on the situation and produce different outcomes from the question of “how to ­overcome resistance to change” (Choi & Ruona, 2011). While the latter question assumes that the role of change agents is to act as monitors who react to signs of resistance, the former can enable change agents to take the role of coaches and champions for change, who proactively design environments conducive to individual readiness for change within organizations (Dent & Goldberg, 1999a; Ford & Ford, 2008; Jansen, 2000). With precise understanding of the concept of readiness for change, organizational change and ­development practitioners can accurately capture the meanings and information attached to employees’ attitudes towards organizational change and reveal problems with the change implementation. They will also be better able to guide the unfreezing phase (Lewin, 1997) and make more appropriate interventions for the organizational change implementation.





16.4.2 Suggestions for future research


Even though individual readiness for organizational change is an appealing construct, so far only a small number of empirical studies have dealt with this phenomenon (e.g. Cunningham et al., 2002; Eby et al., 2000; Hanpachern et al., 1998; Jones et al., 2005; Madsen et al., 2005; McNabb & Sepic, 1995; Weeks et al., 2004). Moreover, when assessing individual readiness for change, previous research studies have tended to focus only on a single aspect, such as one’s perception of personal benefit from the change (Jones et al., 2005) or one’s evaluation of the organization’s capacity for making successful changes (Weeks et al., 2004). As a result, the studies have failed to capture the multifaceted nature of individual readiness for organizational change. Considering the importance of the construct, we need more studies that investigate how to foster it in organizations and which are conducted with measures that effectively capture its nature (e.g. Holt et al., 2007).

In addition, future research needs to be conducted to determine the effects of individual readiness for organizational change. Even though some of the previous research studies have shown a positive association between individuals’ attitudes towards organizational change and their actual behavioral support for change initiatives (e.g. Herscovitch & Meyer, 2002; Jones et al., 2005; Kwahk & Lee, 2008; ­Meyer et al., 2007; Michaelis et al., 2009; Parish et al., 2008; Rubin et al., 2009; Shum et al., 2008; Stanley et al., 2005), more empirical work needs to be done to explain this link with confidence. Research in this line will eventually help organizational change and development researchers and practitioners find better ways to improve organizations’ ability to increase organizational members’ acceptance of or support for change ­initiatives.





References


Armenakis, A.A. & Bedeian, A.G. (1999). Organizational change: a review of theory and research in the 1990s. Journal of Management, 25(3), 293–315.

Armenakis, A.A., Harris, S.G., & Mossholder, K.W. (1993). Creating readiness for organizational change. Human Relations, 46(6), 681–703.

Beer, M. & Nohria, N. (2000a). Cracking the code of change. Harvard Business Review, 78(3), 133–141.

Beer, M. & Nohria, N. (2000b). Introduction: resolving the tension between theories E and O. In M. Beer & N. Nohria, editors. Breaking the Code of Change. Boston, MA: Harvard Business School Press. pp. 1–33.

Bernerth, J.B., Armenakis, A.A., Feild, H.S., & Walker, H.J. (2007). Justice, cynicism, and commitment: a study of important organizational change variables. Journal of Applied Behavioral Science, 43(3), 303–326.

Block, L. & Keller, P.A. (1998). Beyond protection motivation: an integrative theory of health appeals. Journal of Applied Social Psychology, 28(17), 1584–1608.

Bommer, W.H., Rich, G.A., & Rubin, R.S. (2005). Changing attitudes about change: longitudinal effects of transformational leader behavior on employee cynicism about organizational change. Journal of Organizational Behavior, 26(7), 733–753.

Brehm, S.S. & Brehm, J.W. (1981). Psychological Reactance: A Theory of Freedom and Control. New York, NY: Academic Press.

Brown, M. & Cregan, C. (2008). Organizational change cynicism: the role of employee involvement. Human Resource Management, 47(4), 667–686.

Brown, S.L. & Eisenhardt, K.M. (1997). The art of continuous change: linking complexity theory and time-paced evolution in relentlessly shifting organizations. Administrative Science Quarterly, 42(1), 1–34.

Burke, W.W. (2008). Organizational Change: Theory and Practice, 2nd edition. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage.

Burke, W.W. & Biggart, N. (1997). Interorganizational relations. In D. Druckman, J.E. Singer, H. Van Cott, editor. Enhancing Organizational Performance. Washington, DC: National Academy Press. pp. 120–149.

Burnes, B. (2004a). Kurt Lewin and complexity theories: back to the future? Journal of Change Management, 4(4), 309–325.

Burnes, B. (2004b). Kurt Lewin and the planned approach to change: a re-appraisal. Journal of Management Studies, 41(6), 977–1002.

Burnes, B. (2004c). Managing Change: A Strategic Approach to Organisational Dynamics, 4th edition. London: Prentice Hall.

Caldwell, S.D., Herold, D.M., & Fedor, D.B. (2004). Toward an understanding of the relationships among organizational change, individual differences, and changes in person-environment fit: a cross-level study. Journal of Applied Psychology, 89(5), 868–882.

Chen, J. & Wang, L. (2007). Locus of control and the three components of commitment to change. Personality and Individual Differences, 42(3), 503–512.

Child, J. (1972). Organization structure, environment and performance: the role of strategic choice. Sociology, 6, 1–22.

Choi, M. (2011). Employees’ attitudes toward organizational change: a literature review. Human Resource Management, 50(4), 479–500.

Choi, M. & Ruona, W.E.A. (2011). Individual readiness for organizational change and its implications for human resource and organization development. Human Resource Development Review, 10(1), 46–73.

Cummings, T.G. & Worley, C.G. (2005). Organizational Development and Change, 8th edition. Mason, OH: Thomson South-Western.

Cunningham, C.E., Woodward, C.A., Shannon, H.S., MacIntosh, J., Lendrum, B., Rosenbloom, D., et al. (2002). Readiness for organizational change: a longitudinal study of workplace, psychological and behavioural correlates. Journal of Occupational & Organizational Psychology, 75(4), 377–392.

Dent, E.B. & Goldberg, S.G. (1999a). Challenging “resistance to change.” Journal of Applied Behavioral Science, 35(1), 25–41.

Dent, E.B. & Goldberg, S.G. (1999b). “Resistance to change”: a limiting perspective. Journal of Applied Behavioral Science, 35(1), 45–47.

Devos, G., Buelens, M., & Bouckenooghe, D. (2007). Contribution of content, context, and process to understanding openness to organizational change: two experimental simulation studies. Journal of Social Psychology, 147(6), 607–630.

Devos, G., Vanderheyden, K., & Van den Broeck, H. (2001). A framework for assessing commitment to change: process and context variables of organizational change. Paper presented at the Annual Meeting of the Academy of Management, Washington, DC.

Dunphy, D.C. (2000). Embracing paradox. In M. Beer & N. Nohria, editors. Breaking the Code of Change. Boston, MA: Harvard Business School Press. pp. 123–135.

Eagly, A.H. & Chaiken, S. (1993). The Psychology of Attitudes. Fort Worth, TX: Harcourt Brace Jovanovich.

Eby, L.T., Adams, D.M., Russell, J.E.A., & Gaby, S.H. (2000). Perceptions of organizational readiness for change: factors related to employees’ reactions to the implementation of team-based selling. Human Relations, 53(3), 419–442.

Elias, S.M. (2009). Employee commitment in times of change: assessing the importance of attitudes toward organizational change. Journal of Management, 35(1), 37–55.

Fedor, D.B., Caldwell, S., & Herold, D.M. (2006). The effects of organizational changes on employee commitment: a multilevel investigation. Personnel Psychology, 59(1), 1–29.

Fisher, C.D. (1980). On the dubious wisdom of expecting job satisfaction to correlate with performance. Academy of Management Review, 5(4), 607–612.

Ford, J.D. & Ford, L.W. (1995). The role of conversations in producing intentional change in organizations. Academy of Management Review, 20(3), 541–570.

Ford, J.D., Ford, L.W., & McNamara, R.T. (2002). Resistance and the background conversations of change. Journal of Organizational Change Management, 15(2), 105–121.

Ford, J.D., Ford, L.W., & D’Amelio, A. (2008). Resistance to change: the rest of the story. Academy of Management Review, 33(2), 362–377.

Fuegen, K. & Brehm, J.W. (2004). The intensity of affect and resistance to social influence. In E.S. Knowles & J.A. Linn, editors. Resistance and Persuasion. Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates. pp. 39–64.

George, J.M. & Jones, G.R. (2001). Towards a process model of individual change in organizations. Human Relations, 54(4), 419–444.

Gioia, D.A., Thomas, J.B., Clark, S.M., & Chittipeddi, K. (1994). Symbolism and strategic change in academia: the dynamics of sensemaking and influence. Organization Science, 5(3), 363–383.

Hall, G.E. & Hord, S.M. (1987). Change in Schools: Facilitating the Process. New York, NY: State University of New York Press.

Hanpachern, C., Morgan, G.A., & Griego, O.V. (1998). An extension of the theory of margin: a framework for assessing readiness for change. Human Resource Development Quarterly, 9(4), 339–350.

Herscovitch, L. & Meyer, J.P. (2002). Commitment to organizational change: extension of a three-component model. Journal of Applied Psychology, 87(3), 474–487.

Holt, D.T., Armenakis, A.A., Feild, H.S., & Harris, S.G. (2007). Readiness for organizational change: the systematic development of a scale. Journal of Applied Behavioral Science, 43(2), 232–255.

Isabella, L.A. (1990). Evolving interpretations as a change unfolds: how managers construe key organizational events. Academy of Management Journal, 33(1), 7–41.

Jansen, K.J. (2000). The emerging dynamics of change: resistance, readiness, and momentum. Human Resource Planning, 23(2), 53–55.

Jermier, J.M., Knights, D., & Nord, W.R. (1994). Resistance and Power in Organizations. London: Routledge.

Joe, G.W., Simpson, D.D., & Broome, K.M. (1998). Effects of readiness for drug abuse treatment on client retention and assessment of process. Addiction, 93(8), 1177–1190.

Johnson, J.L. & O’Leary-Kelly, A.M. (2003). The effects of psychological contract breach and organizational cynicism: not all social exchange violations are created equal. Journal of Organizational Behavior, 24(5), 627–647.

Jones, R.A., Jimmieson, N.L., & Griffiths, A. (2005). The impact of organizational culture and reshaping capabilities on change implementation success: the mediating role of readiness for change. Journal of Management Studies, 42(2), 361–386.

Judge, T.A., Thoresen, C.J., Pucik, V., & Welbourne, T.M. (1999). Managerial coping with organizational change: a dispositional perspective. Journal of Applied Psychology, 84(1), 107–122.

Katz, D. & Kahn, R.L. (1978). The Social Psychology of Organizations, 2nd edition. New York, NY: John Wiley & Sons.

Klein, D. (1985). Some notes on the dynamics of resistance to change: the defender role. In W.G. Bennis, K.D. Benne & R. Chin, editors. The Planning of Change, 4th edition. New York, NY: Holt, Rinehart & Winston. pp. 98–105.

Klein, K.J. & Sorra, J.S. (1996). The challenge of innovation implementation. Academy of Management Review, 21(4), 1055–1080.

Knowles, E.S. & Linn, J.A. (2004). The importance of resistance to persuasion. In E.S. Knowles & J.A. Linn, editors. Resistance and Persuasion. Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum. pp. 3–9.

Kotter, J.P. (1995). Leading change: why transformation efforts fail. Harvard Business Review, 73(2), 59–67.

Kotter, J.P. (1996). Leading Change. Boston, MA: Harvard Business School Press.

Krantz, J. (1999). Comment on “Challenging ‘resistance to change’”. Journal of Applied Behavioral Science, 35(1), 42–44.

Kwahk, K.-Y. & Kim, H.-W. (2008). Managing readiness in enterprise systems-driven organizational change. Behaviour & Information Technology, 27(1), 79–87.

Kwahk, K.-Y. & Lee, J.-N. (2008). The role of readiness for change in erp implementation: theoretical bases and empirical validation. Information & Management, 45(7), 474–481.

Lau, C.M. & Woodman, R.W. (1995). Understanding organizational change: a schematic perspective. Academy of Management Journal, 38(2), 537–554.

Lewin, K. (1997). Frontiers in group dynamics. In G.W. Lewin, editor. Resolving Social Conflicts & Field Theory in Social Science. Washington, DC: American Psychological Association. (Original work published 1947). pp. 301–336.

Lines, R. (2005). The structure and function of attitudes toward organizational change. Human Resource Development Review, 4(1), 8–32.

Madsen, S.R., Miller, D., & John, C.R. (2005). Readiness for organizational change: do organizational commitment and social relationships in the workplace make a difference? Human Resource Development Quarterly, 16(2), 213–233.

Maurer, R. (2006). Resistance and change in organizations. In B.B. Jones & M. Brazzel, editors. The NTL Handbook of Organization Development and Change: Principles, Practices, and Perspectives. San Francisco, CA: Pfeiffer. pp. 121–138.

Mayer, S.E. (1975). Are you ready to accept program evaluation? Program Evaluation Resource Center Newsletter, 6(1), 1–5.

McNabb, D.E. & Sepic, F.T. (1995). Culture, climate, and total quality management: measuring readiness for change. Public Productivity & Management Review, 18(4), 369–385.

Meyer, J.P., Srinivas, E.S., Lal, J.B., & Topolnytsky, L. (2007). Employee commitment and support for an organizational change: test of the three-component model in two cultures. Journal of Occupational and Organizational Psychology, 80(2), 185–211.

Michaelis, B., Stegmaier, R., & Sonntag, K. (2009). Affective commitment to change and innovation implementation behavior: the role of charismatic leadership and employees’ trust in top management. Journal of Change Management, 9(4), 399–417.

Miller, V.D., Johnson, J.R., & Grau, J. (1994). Antecedents to willingness to participate in a planned organizational change. Journal of Applied Communication Research, 22(1), 59–80.

Morera, O.F., Johnson, T.P., Freels, S., Parsons, J., Crittenden, K.S., Flay, B.R., et al. (1998). The measure of state of readiness to change: some psychometric considerations. Psychological Assessment, 10(2), 182–186.

Parish, J.T., Cadwallader, S., & Busch, P. (2008). Want to, need to, ought to: employee commitment to organizational change. Journal of Organizational Change Management, 21(1), 32–52.

Petty, R.E. & Wegener, D.T. (1998). Attitude change: multiple roles for persuasion variables. In D.T. Gilbert, S.T. Fiske & G. Lindzey, editors. The Handbook of Social Psychology, 4th edition, vol. 2. New York, NY: Oxford University Press. pp. 323–390.

Piderit, S.K. (2000). Rethinking resistance and recognizing ambivalence: a multidimensional view of attitudes toward an organizational change. Academy of Management Review, 25(4), 783–794.

Porras, J.I. & Robertson, P.J. (1992). Organizational development: theory, practice, and research. In M.D. Dunnette & L.M. Hough, editors. Handbook of Industrial & Organizational Psychology, 2nd edition, vol. 3. Palo Alto, CA: Consulting Psychologists Press. pp. 719–822.

Prochaska, J.O., Redding, C.A., & Evers, K.E. (1997). The transtheoretical model and stages of change. In K. Glanz, F.M. Lewis & B.K. Rimer, editors. Health Behavior and Health Education. San Francisco, CA: Jossey-Bass. pp. 60–84.

Rafferty, A. & Simons, R. (2006). An examination of the antecedents of readiness for fine-tuning and corporate transformation changes. Journal of Business & Psychology, 20(3), 325–350.

Reichers, A.E., Wanous, J.P., & Austin, J.T. (1997). Understanding and managing cynicism about organizational change. Academy of Management Executive, 11(1), 48–59.

Rogers, E.M. (2003). Diffusion of Innovations, 5th edition. New York, NY: Free Press.

Rosenthal, R. & Jacobson, L. (1992). Pygmalion in the Classroom (expanded edition). New York: Irvington.

Rubin, R.S., Dierdorff, E.C., Bommer, W.H., & Baldwin, T.T. (2009). Do leaders reap what they sow? Leader and employee outcomes of leader organizational cynicism about change. Leadership Quarterly, 20(5), 680–688.

Schein, E.H. (1987). Process Consultation: Lessons for Managers and Consultants, vol. 2. Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley.

Schein, E.H. (1999a). Kurt Lewin’s change theory in the field and in the classroom: notes toward a model of managed learning. Reflections, 1(1), 59–74. (Reprinted from System Practice and Action Research, 9(1), 27–47).

Schein, E.H. (1999b). Process Consultation Revisited: Building the Helping Relationship. Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley.

Shum, P., Bove, L., & Auh, S. (2008). Employees’ affective commitment to change the key to successful CRM implementation. European Journal of Marketing, 42(11/12), 1346–1371.

Stacey, R., Griffiin, D., & Shaw, P. (2002). Complexity and Management: Fad or Radical Challenge to Systems Thinking? London: Routledge.

Stanley, D.J., Meyer, J.P., & Topolnytsky, L. (2005). Employee cynicism and resistance to organizational change. Journal of Business & Psychology, 19(4), 429–459.

Styhre, A. (2002). Non-linear change in organizations: organization change management informed by complexity theory. Leadership and Organization Development Journal, 23(6), 343–351.

Tetenbaum, T.J. (1998). Shifting paradigms: from Newton to chaos. Organizational Dynamics, 26(4), 21–32.

Tsoukas, H. & Chia, R. (2002). On organizational becoming: rethinking organizational change. Organization Science, 13(5), 567–582.

Waddell, D. & Sohal, A.S. (1998). Resistance: a constructive tool for change management. Management Decision, 36(8), 543–548.

Wanberg, C.R. & Banas, J.T. (2000). Predictors and outcomes of openness to changes in a reorganizing workplace. Journal of Applied Psychology, 85(1), 132–142.

Wanous, J.P., Reichers, A.E., & Austin, J.T. (2000). Cynicism about organizational change: measurement, antecedents, and correlates. Group & Organization Management, 25(2), 132–153.

Weeks, W.A., Roberts, J., Chonko, L.B., & Jones, E. (2004). Organizational readiness for change, individual fear of change, and sales manager performance: an empirical investigation. Journal of Personal Selling & Sales Management, 24(1), 7–17.

Weick, K.E. (1995). Sensemaking in Organizations. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage.





17


Towards an Integration of Stage Theories of Planned Organizational Change


Janice M. Prochaska, James O. Prochaska, and Dustin Bailey





17.1 Introduction


The management of planned change has been reported as CEOs’ most central concern in managing their companies (Conference Board, 2010; Van de Ven et al., 1989). Scholars and consultants have jumped to provide prescriptions with little or no supporting evidence. Innovation requires more than creative capacities to invent new ideas; it requires managerial skills to transform good ideas into practice. The specific skills required to manage the process of innovation remain underdeveloped (Burke, 2004). A road map indicating how and why planned change unfolds and what paths are likely to lead to success or failure is vital in today’s rapidly-changing world. Micklethwait & Wooldridge (1996) sharply criticized management theory for being incapable of self-criticism, for having confusing terminology, for rarely rising above common sense, and for being faddish and bedeviled by contradictions that would not be allowed in more-rigorous disciplines.





17.2 Stage Theories of Change


Since the second half of the 20th century, a series of scholars and researchers in organizational-change theory have used the stage paradigm. Lewin (1951) was the first to develop core notions about the dynamics of the change process within organizations and put forth a stage model of planned change. Lewin theorized that in an organization, any given stable state is a quasistationary equilibrium that can be unfrozen, moved, and refrozen by a change agent. By providing information that things are no longer working, unfreezing can take place. As a result, an organization will become less committed to the current mode of operation. The unfreezing creates motivation and readiness to change. The issue is then reframed so that new perspectives, attitudes, and feelings are created and the organization is moved through cognitive redefinition. Then freezing or stabilization of the change occurs through integration into the social system of the organization. Here discomfort with the change needs to be reduced. Throughout the process of unfreezing, movement, and refreezing, Lewin describes driving forces that promote new directions or change and restraining forces that reinforce the status quo or support the organization’s resistance to change. The likelihood of success depends on the balance between the scope and complexity of the proposed goal and the strength of the change-producing forces (Lauffer, 1982).

Another leading model of stages of individual and organizational change is E.M. Rogers’ diffusion of innovation theory. Rogers (1971) wrote extensively on collective innovative decisions and found them to be considerably more complex than individual innovation. These collective decisions are to initiate a new idea in an organization, to adapt the new proposal to local conditions, to sanction the idea, and to support the change. Each of these behaviors may be carried out by different individuals in the organization.

Rogers concentrated more on the power-holders or influential persons who make the decisions and less on the new idea and the way it is adopted within an organization. The focus on power-holders or influential persons is consistent with Rogers’ diffusion work, which attempts to analyze the innovation decision-making process and to determine the roles played by various innovators, resisters, and leaders as the change process unfolds. Innovators are the inventors of the new practice technology, or, by extension, the people who pass the new idea through an organization. Resisters, or critics of the innovation, are the defenders of the system the way it is. Leaders are those within an organization who influence the methods used by others. By virtue of professional or personal prestige, they are seen as models of practice and are often recruited as champions of the planned change (Smale, 1994). These three groups of people play significant roles in generating group acceptance or rejection of an innovation.

Zaltman et al.’s (1973) theory of the innovation process is one of the best-known ­stage-based models at the level of the organization. It is subdivided into initiation and implementation, sequentially ordered in time, and linked with transaction routines to make adjustments between stages.

Knowledge of the initiation is the crucial first substage of the innovation. Thus before any innovation can take place or be adopted, potential adopters must be aware that the innovation exists and that there is an opportunity to utilize it in the organization. In the second substage, organizational members form attitudes towards the innovation along the dimensions of their openness to it and its perceived potential. Here it is important to develop some commitment on the part of organizational members to work for the innovation and to deal with some of the potential problems that might arise as its implementation is attempted. In the third substage, the information concerning the potential innovation is evaluated and a decision is made.

The second major stage of the innovation process is concerned with the actual utilization of the innovation by organizational members as they perform their tasks. In the initial implementation substage, the organization makes the first attempt to utilize the particular innovation, often on a trial basis. If the initial implementation is successful, there is a greater likelihood that the innovation will continue to be implemented and that the continued–sustained implementation substage will be entered. In this last substage the innovation is fully implemented and is considered a routine part of organizational life.

Table 17.1 Comparison of stages of the innovation process.

Lewin Zaltman, Duncan, Hollbeck Kotter

Unfreezing

Cognitive redefinition





Refreezing I. Initiation stage1. Knowledge-awareness substage

2. Formation of attitudes towards innovation substage

3. Decision substage





II. Implementation stage1. Initial implementation

2. Continued-sustained implementation





1. Sense of urgency

2. Form guiding coalition

3. Create a vision

4. Communicate the vision

5. Empower others to act on the vision

6. Plan for short-term wins

7. Consolidate and improve on changes

8. Institutionalize new approaches





In contrast to Zaltman et al. (1973), March & Simon’s (1958) organizational-change theory focuses just on problem-solving and so describes the initiation phase of the innovation process but not the implementation phase. March and Simon see initiation occurring when a given program of activity no longer satisfies performance goals; organization performance is then perceived as unsatisfactory and the search is on for innovation.

In more recent years, Kotter (2007) has put forth the idea that leaders who successfully transform businesses do right things right and in the right order. Kotter’s (1995) eight steps or stages are outlined in Table 17.1, where they are compared to the stages of previously-mentioned theorists. The review provided here demonstrates that ­stage-modeling has a long history in the organizational-change literature.





17.3 Anti-stage Theories of Planned Organizational Change


Rather than viewing the organizational-change process as a series of discrete stages sequentially ordered in time and linked with transition routines to make adjustments between stages, Schroeder et al. (1989) believe the process to be fluid, without a fixed sequence of stages. Taking a grounded theory approach, Schroeder et al. analyzed eight historical innovations. They noted that six displayed a common pattern or sequence. While some of these six stages logically must precede others, they are not presented as a fixed sequence. Schroeder et al. worked to capture significant process patterns in the development of innovations. They recognized the untidy nature of the innovative process and likened the pattern to a fireworks display. Although some of the streams of activity are interdependent, many appear to be disjunctive and to occur independently of their streams of activity. There is a great deal of back-tracking and overlap as well. Stages are not seen, but instead there are tracks of activities involving ideas, people, transactions, context, and outcomes.

The process Schroeder and his colleagues observed includes: an initial shock to propel the innovation idea into being; proliferation of the original idea; setbacks and surprises along the way, which provide numerous opportunities for trial-and-error learning; a blending of old and new ideas as the innovation is implemented and diffused; ­restructuring of the organization; and the involvement of top management in the process.

Cohen et al.’s (1972) “garbage can” model follows the fluidity of Schroeder and his colleagues. They describe many stakeholders engaging and disengaging in the innovation process over time, as their needs for inclusion and identity dictate. Reorganization or change is described as a choice opportunity that collects an assortment of ­loosely-­connected problems, solutions, and participants, and which allows the organization to arrive at an interpretation of what it has become, what it is becoming, and what it is going to become. Organizations are viewed as collections of choices looking for problems, issues and ­feelings looking for decision situations in which they might be aired, solutions looking for issues to which they might be an answer, and decision-makers looking for work (Cohen et al., 1972).

Deming (1982) and Katzenbach & Smith (1993) provide management rather than stage guidance on how to convert innovations to implementation. Deming advocates for a different style of management that is focused on constantly and continually improving the quality of a product or a service and which recognizes the power of teamwork to do so. He calls for a complete shakeup of Western styles of management. According to ­Deming, management is obligated to improve continually through the use of statistical analysis and the breaking down of barriers between management and hourly workers. Everyone and every department must subscribe to constant improvement, and managers must be good role models (Walton, 1986).

Katzenbach & Smith (1993) believe that teams represent one of the best ways to support the broad-based changes necessary for high-performing organizations. Executives who want innovation should give top priority to the development of team performance. Katzenbach and Smith also see a link between teams, individual behavioral change, and high organizational performance. The same team dynamics that promote high performance also support learning and behavioral change. These authors argue that change is more effectively implemented at the team level than at either the larger organizational or the individual level. Because of these advantages, these authors suggest that the focus of change should be at the team level.





17.4 Transtheoretical Model


Over the past 35 years, the transtheoretical model of behavior change (TTM) has emerged as one of the leading integrative approaches to individual and organizational change. The process of change has been the central focus of the transtheoretical framework developed by Prochaska & DiClemente (1984). They propose interrelated dimensions that can adequately assess intentional modification of behavior. The stage of change is the central organizing construct of the model. It represents the temporal, motivational, and constancy aspects of change. The second dimension, processes of change, focuses on activities and events that create successful modification of behavior. The model dictates different intervention strategies for the different stages of change: precontemplation (not intending to take action within the next 6 months), contemplation (intending to take action within 6 months), preparation (intending to take action in the next 30 days and making small changes), action (actively engaging in a new behavior), and maintenance (sustaining the new behavior over time). Activation of the appropriate processes results in acceleration through these stages of change. Processes include such interventions as consciousness-raising, dramatic relief, reinforcement management, counter conditioning, helping relationships, and stimulus control. The model also defines a set of dynamic variables that includes decisional balance—the pros and cons of behavior change (Velicer et al., 1985). Decisional balance was originally based on the theoretical model of decision-making developed by Janis & Mann (1977). Decisional balance involves comparison of the perceived positive aspects (pros) and negative aspects (cons) of making a behavior change.

Comparing across studies of 12 different behaviors, Prochaska et al. (1994) discovered some remarkably consistent patterns across stages of change and pros and cons of changing. In precontemplation, the cons of changing were always higher than the pros. From precontemplation to contemplation, the pros always increased, but there was no consistent pattern in the cons. From contemplation to action, the cons always decreased, but there was no consistent pattern in the pros. These findings were replicated with 48 behaviors by Hall & Rossi (2008). It was discovered that from precontemplation to action, there was approximately 1 standard deviation peak increase in the pros of changing. From contemplation to action, there was approximately a .5 standard deviation decrease in the cons of changing. These basic patterns have implications for applied interventions. To produce progress with populations or organizations in the precontemplation stage, programs must increase employees’ perceptions of the pros of changing. To produce progress with populations or organizations in contemplation, programs must decrease employees’ perceptions of the cons of changing.

Systematic relationships between the stage and the pros and cons of change have been found across each organizational-change behavior and population we have examined, including: (1) readiness to participate in collaborative service delivery (university employees) (Levesque et al., 1999); (2) readiness for a merger or acquisition (food-brokerage-company employees); (3) readiness to participate in high-performance teams (university employees); (4) readiness for managed care (Prochaska, 2000); (5) readiness to purchase systems, applications, and products in data-processing (trade-conference attendees); (6) readiness to use a stage approach to organizational change (change-management consultants); (7) advancing female scientists (Prochaska et al., 2006); and (8) readiness for continuous quality improvement (Levesque et al., 2001). No other theory of organizational change has generated such consistent results across such a range of issues, populations, and organizations. As with 48 health behaviors in individuals, it was discovered that from precontemplation to action there was approximately 1 standard deviation peak increase in the pros of changing. From contemplation to action, there was approximately a .5 standard deviation decrease in the cons of changing.

Longitudinal studies of change have found decisional balance measures to be a powerful predictor of future change. Pros and cons predict whether or not employees classified as precontemplators progress to more advanced stages of change (e.g. Blissmer et al., 2010; Velicer et al., 1985). Organizational-change programs based on the TTM facilitate change through interactions with employees that are designed to increase the pros and decrease the cons of changing. Such interventions help employees and stakeholders understand the benefits of a new work behavior, and thus help create conditions more conducive to the change.

Stage effects involve the ability to predict performance over time depending on the stage at baseline. Over an 18-month period, those in precontemplation make the least successful changes; those in contemplation make significantly more progress; and those in the preparation stage make the most progress. Helping those in precontemplation progress to contemplation with a brief intervention should allow them to show the increased progress of contemplation over time. In fact, in one study those who progressed one stage in 1 month following intervention took twice as much effective action over the next 6 months (Prochaska et al., 1985). From a stage paradigm, it is a much more realistic immediate or short-term goal to help precontemplators to progress to contemplation than it is to use an action-paradigm goal of trying to move them all the way to maintenance quickly. An action goal for precontemplators early in intervention is likely to lead to low participation rates, low retention rates, and high resistance.

A fourth construct of the TTM is self-efficacy. According to Bandura (1977), self-efficacy is a belief in one’s ability to carry out a particular action, as distinct from one’s actual capability. Belief in the ability to carry out specific actions plays a large role in whether goals are achieved. Beliefs influence whether individuals initiate and persist in actions directed towards these goals (Bandura, 1982).

The TTM provides: a framework for understanding the mechanisms that are hypothesized to mediate intentional change (processes); a temporal ordering of sequences of events in changing an established pattern (stages); measures that are sensitive to the earliest signs of change (decisional balance and self-efficacy); a means of tailoring education and intervention approaches to the level of readiness for change.





17.5 The TTM and Organizational Change


Specialists are trained to see what is unique in their area of study. Integrationists are trained to find patterns common across specific areas of inquiry and practice. Eldredge & Gould (1972), for example, have suggested that there are common patterns of change across many levels of the universe, including cellular changes, evolution of life, individual development, organizational development, and development of the universe.

Van de Ven & Poole (1995), leaders in the study of organizational change, also point out the type of theoretical pluralism that has uncovered novel ways to explain some organizational change. There is now a diversity of theories and concepts, borrowed from different disciplines ranging from child development to evolutionary biology to teleology. Gioia & Pitre (1990) warn against compartmentalization of perspectives that produce isolated lines of research and encourage comparative analyses of change dynamics across different units of analysis.

In her seminal article in the Academy of Management Review, Gersick (1991) compared models of change and found that:

(1) There are important commonalities in how change occurs across such diverse domains as organizations, groups, individuals, species, and physical matter.

(2) Comparing research findings from disparate areas is beneficial because different facets of kindred processes may come into focus as the methodology and levels of analysis vary. Gersick states that “models from different fields have much to offer each other [beginning] with the premise that they reflect common processes” (p. 11).



Baranowski (1990) and Winett (1995) present excellent analyses of how TTM can be used at individual and institutional levels. These leading theorists are enthusiastic about the applicability of TTM to planned change in organizations and institutions. Baranowski, in his 1990 article, displays some of the types of interventions that can be applied at each stage across different levels, including the physical, social, and institutional environment, as well as the individual.

Paskett et al. (1992) state that the stage model of behavior change could be applied to the organizational level in terms of identifying readiness to change. Intervention programs could then be tailored to correspond to the stage of change. Abrams (1991) describes the workplace as a complex social system intermediate between individual and population levels of social structure. He applied TTM to the worksite and began to theoretically integrate individual and organizational interventions, and he states that TTM can be applied, iteratively, to any size of aggregate unit of social structure. Worksites are to communities what individuals are to worksites. A “systems” perspective simply adjusts the perspective and the theory to match the aggregate unit of analysis.

Armenakis et al. (1993) offer Bandura’s (1982) strategies for influencing individual cognitions as appropriate for creating readiness for organizational change. Bowen et al. (1997) expanded the TTM to study communities’ readiness to change. Using the TTM as a guide, they found that a community can be assigned a stage of readiness.

Rogers (1995) included “Prochaska’s Stages of Change” in his fourth edition of Diffusion in Innovations and compares TTM to his stages. Rogers put forth the notion of a hierarchy of communication effects, where an individual usually must pass from knowledge change to overt behavior change in a cumulative sequence of stages that are generally parallel to the TTM stages of change. TTM has distinct research advantages in that it can go beyond the case-study form of qualitative research carried out by Rogers; TTM can analyze the dynamic process and make it quantitative by first focusing on change, one stage at a time, and then integrating each of the stages into a dynamic process.

There are six steps to applying the TTM stage approach to the study of change in organizations:

(1) Identify and define target behavior changes—Review relevant documentation and conduct interviews with key informants to identify and define in very concrete terms the employee and organizational behaviors that need to change to accomplish the desired change objectives.

(2) Customize TTM measures—Develop tailored surveys that precisely match the target behavior changes identified. These surveys assess employees’ readiness to change (individual-level assessments) and what the organization is doing to facilitate change (organization-level assessments).

(3) Administer TTM measures—Distribute surveys to all employees who have been or will be asked to participate in the change effort. Encourage employee participation and ensure confidentiality. Assessments should take 30–40 minutes to complete.

(4) Data analysis and feedback—On the basis of the data, provide a detailed profile of employees’ readiness to change and recommend stage-matched individual-level and organization-level interventions that will maximize progress.

(5) Provide stage-matched individual- and organization-level interventions—Work with change leaders to deliver the individual- and organization-level interventions best suited to employees’ readiness to change target behaviors.

(6) Re-administer stage-of-change measures—Re-administer assessments 3–6 months later to chart progress (e.g. “How many employees have progressed at least one stage and now have progressed to the action stage?” “How do employees now perceive the pros and cons of the organization’s change-management initiative?”).



These steps were followed in a study to assess a university’s readiness for integrated service delivery and to guide the development of a stage-matched management program that would minimize resistance and maximize the likelihood of successful change. Thirty-one members of the university staff and administrators completed an assessment containing the stage and decisional-balance measures, as well as measures of behaviors representing the goals of integrated service delivery. Data provided preliminary evidence of the applicability of the model to integrated service delivery. For example, stage of change displayed characteristic relationships to behavior and the pros and cons of integrated service delivery. Based on the pattern of findings, a stage-matched change-management program was developed, tailored to the organization’s readiness to change (Levesque et al., 1999).

Berry et al. (2007) have criticized the organizational stages-of-change construct of the TTM. They collected data on organizational and individual stages of change from service providers, senior management, and board members at 17 provincial health authorities across three data-collection periods. Participants were asked for their organization’s and their individual readiness to promote tobacco reduction, physical activity, and healthy eating. The authors stated that the organizational stage-of-change construct was not valid because inconsistent relationships were found for service providers and there were no significant correlations for board respondents.

Such variability does not refute a model, but it can refute a measure that is too vague. A fundamental tenet of using the TTM is that one needs to be explicit regarding the behaviors one must carry out in order to be in action. The “promotion of health behaviors” can too easily be interpreted in different ways by providers, management, and the board. With high variability and poor correlation, the researchers concluded that the stages-of-change construct was not valid. However, we do not believe that these authors applied the TTM staging measure properly and therefore they were not able to generate valid assessments.

Lehman et al. (2002) developed a 115-item survey with 18 content domains to comprehensively assess an organization’s readiness for change. This survey focused on motivation and the personality attributes of program leaders and members of staff, institutional resources, and the organizational climate as a first step in understanding organizational factors related to implementing new technologies. The concern here is that the measure is generic, focusing on an organization’s general readiness to change, and is not specific to what technology is being asked to be accepted. Leaders and staff members can vary markedly depending on what is being asked, with different sets of barriers when different behavior changes are being sought. Because more-stable attributes are assessed, rather than readiness to carry out a new behavior, the instrument is likely to be better suited to understand why changes do not occur than how changes can occur.

The next steps towards an integration of stage theories of planned organizational change would be for scholars and theoreticians to develop a hierarchical model for combining the partial integrations presented in Table 17.1. Then scientists would be able to empirically test how well this conceptual integration can be supported by basic and applied research. Particularly promising is the integration of Rogers’ stages of diffusion of innovation with Prochaska’s stages of change, where stages of diffusion at the population level can be complemented and accelerated by stages of intentional change at the individual level.





References


Abrams, D.B. (1991). Conceptual models to integrate individual and public health interventions: the example of the workplace. In M. Henderson, chair. Proceedings of the International Conference on Promoting Dietary Change in Communities. Seattle, WA: The Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center.

Armenakis, A.A., Harris, S.G., & Mossholder, K.W. (1993). Creating readiness for organizational change. Human Relations, 46, 681–703.

Bandura, A. (1977). Self-efficacy: toward a unifying theory of behavioral change. Psychological Review, 84, 194–215.

Bandura, A. (1982). Self-efficacy mechanism in human agency. American Psychologist, 37, 122–147.

Baranowski, T. (1990). Reciprocal determinism at the stages of behavior change: an integration of community, personal and behavioral perspectives. International Quarterly of Community Health Education, 40, 297–327.

Berry, T.R., Plotnikoff, R.C., Raine, K., Anderson, D., & Naylor, P.J. (2007). An examination of the stages of change construct for health promotion within organizations. Journal of Health Organization and Management, 21(2), 1477–7266.

Blissmer, B., Prochaska, J.O., Velicer, W.F., Redding, C.A., Rossi, J.S., Greene, G. W., et al. (2010). Common factors predicting long-term changes in multiple health behaviors. Journal of Health Psychology, 15(2), 205–214.

Bowen, D.J, Kinne, S., & Urbon, N. (1997). Analyzing communities for readiness for change. American Journal of Health Behavior, 1, 289–298.

Burke, W.W. (2004). Organization development: what we know and what we need to know going forward. Available from http://www.g-rap.org/docs/icb/warner_burke_2004-organisation_development.pdf.

Cohen, M.D., March, J.G., & Olsen, J.P. (1972). A garbage can model of organizational choice. Administrative Service Quarterly, 17, 1–25.

Deming, W.E. (1982). Quality productivity and competitive position. Cambridge, MA: Massachusetts Institute of Technology.

Eldredge, K.M. & Gould, S. (1972). Punctuated equilibria: an alternative to phyletic gradualism. In T.J. Schopf, editor. Models in Paleobiology. San Francisco: Freeman, Cooper and Company.

Gersick, C.J. (1991). Revolutionary change theories: a multilevel exploration of the punctuated equilibrium paradigm. Academy of Management Review, 16, 10–36.

Gioia, D.A. & Pitre, E. (1990). Multiparadigm perspectives in theory building. Academy of Management Review, 15, 584–602.

Hall, K.L. & Rossi, J.S. (2008). Meta-analytic examination of the strong and weak principles across 48 health behaviors. Preventive Medicine, 46(3), 266–274.

Janis, I.L. & Mann, L. (1977). Decision Making: A Psychological Analysis of Conflict, Choice and Commitment. New York: Free Press.

Katzenbach, J.R. & Smith, D.K. (1993). Wisdom of Teams. New York: HarperCollins.

Kotter, J.P. (2007). Leading change why transformation efforts fail. Harvard Business Review, 85(1), 96–103.

Kotter, J.P. (1995). The 20% Solution: Using Rapid Redesign to Create Tomorrow’s Organizations Today. Hoboken, NJ: John Wiley & Sons.

Lauffer, A. (1982). Assessment tools for practitioners, managers, and trainers. Beverly Hills, CA: Sage.

Lehman, W.K., Greener, J.M., & Simpson, D.D. (2002). Assessing organizational readiness for change. Journal of Substance Abuse Treatment, 22, 197–209.

Lewin, K. (1951). Field Theory in Social Science. New York: Harper & Row.

Levesque, D.A., Prochaska, J.M., & Prochaska, J.O. (1999). Stages of change and integrated service delivery. Consulting Psychology Journal, 51, 226–241.

Levesque, D.A., Prochaska, J.M., Prochaska, J.O., Dewart, S.R., Hamby, L.S., & Weeks, W.B. (2001). Organizational stages and processes of change for continuous quality improvement in healthcare. Consulting Psychology Journal, 53, 139–153.

March, J. & Simons, H. (1958). Organizations. New York: John Wiley & Sons.

Micklewait, J. & Wooldridge, A. (1996). The Witch Doctors. New York: Random House.

Paskett, E.D., Masten, K.B., Phillips, K.C., & Case, L.D. (1992). Paper presented at the 120th Annual Meeting of the American Public Health Association.

Prochaska, J.O., DiClemente, C.C., Velicer, W.F., Ginpil, S., & Norcross, J.C. (1985). Predicting change in smoking status for self-changers. Addictive Behaviors, 10(4), 395–406.

Prochaska, J.O. & DiClemente, C.C. (1984). The Transtheoretical Approach: Crossing Traditional Boundaries of Therapy. Homewood, IL: Dow Jones Irwin.

Prochaska, J.O., Velicer, W.F., Rossi, J.S., Goldstein, M.G., Marcus, B.H., Rakowski, W., Fiore, C., Harlow, L.L., Redding, C.A., Rosenbloom, D., & Rossi, S.R. (1994). Stages of change and decisional balance for 12 problem behaviors. Health Psychology, 11, 39–46.

Prochaska, J.M. (2000). A transtheoretical model for assessing organizational change: a study of family service agencies’ movement to time limited therapy. Families in Society, 80, 76–84.

Prochaska, J.M., Mauriello, L.M., Sherman, K.J., Harlow, L., Silver, B., & Trubatch, J. (2006). Assessing readiness for advancing women scientists using the transtheoretical model. Sex Roles: A Research Journal, 54, 869–880.

Rogers, E.M. (1995). Diffusion of Innovations. New York: The Free Press.

Rogers, E.M. (1971). Communication of Innovations. New York: The Free Press.

Schroeder, R.G., Van de Ven, A.H., Scudder, G.D., & Polley, D. (1989). The development of innovation ideas. In Van de Yen et al., editors. Research on the Management of Innovations. New York: Harper & Row.

Smale, G. (1994). Innovation transfer and community-centered practice. The Prevention Report, Fall, 6–12.

The Conference Board. 2010. CEO Challenge 2010: Top Ten Challenges. Available from http://www.executiveconnectionsllc.com/pdfs/CEOChallenges_2010.pdf.

Van de Ven, A.H., Angle, H.L., & Poole, M.S., editors. (1989). Research on the Management of Innovation. New York: Harper and Row.

Van de Ven, A.H. & Poole, M.S. (1995). Explaining development and change in organizations. Academy of Management Review, 20, 510–540.

Velicer, W.F., DiClemente, C.C., Prochaska, J.O., & Brandenburg, N. (1985). A decisional balance measure for assessing and predicting smoking status. Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, 48, 1279–1289.

Walton, M. (1986). The Deming Management Method. New York: Putnam.

Winett, R.A. (1995). A framework for health promotion and disease prevention programs. American Psychologist, 50, 341–350.

Zaltman, G., Duncan, R., & Holbeck, J. (1973). Innovations and Organizations. New York: John Wiley & Sons.





18


Culture and Change in Developing Western Countries


Anthony Montgomery

… a talent for speaking differently rather than for arguing well, is the chief instrument of cultural change.

Rorty (1989, p. 7)





18.1 Introduction to Culture and Change


There is an inherent assumption in the organization-development (OD) literature that change and leadership in an organization are helped or hindered by the culture that is found among the individuals that populate the “organization.” Additionally, layered upon this is the idea that national/ethnic cultures contribute to the dynamics of organizational change. This latter assumption is informed by the idea that different nationalities have “hard-wired” ways of coping with organizational life, and the work of Hofstede (1985, 2001) and Trompenaars & Hampden-Turner (1998) would appear to support the idea that national culture and societal values play a significant role in organizational life via organizational culture. Interestingly, the prevailing assumption is that the US/UK and Northern European models of organizational functioning are the ones that developing countries should aspire too, as evidenced by the predominance of neoliberal policies in post-communist countries and the increasing number of managers in developing countries who hold MBAs from the West. Undoubtedly, the latter is related to the former.

Organizational scientists ignore history at their own peril. The organizational models that have evolved in developing countries have carried their history with them, and the results of organizational change efforts in these countries have been both positive and ­negative. The purpose of this chapter is to disentangle the aforementioned issues. In addition, I will describe organizational change in a number of developing Western ­countries. More specifically, I will profile recent developments in a selection of countries in Central and Eastern Europe (CEE) and the East Mediterranean region: Romania, ­Bulgaria, Turkey, Greece, Albania, Hungary, the Czech Republic, Slovenia, and Croatia.

It was Denison (2001) who noted that while Europe has transformed politically and economically since the fall of the Berlin Wall, the most dynamic changes have taken place within individual organizations. In this sense, organizations in developing countries have the potential to act as a prism through which macro-economic and social changes are refracted. The target countries of this chapter have experienced two major changes over the last 30 years. First, they have made a transition from communist to free-market economics (with the exception of Greece and Turkey), and second, they have gained or are attempting to gain accession to the European Union (EU). Greece has been a member since 1981, Hungary, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, and Slovenia since 2004, and Romania and Bulgaria since 2007. Croatia, FYROM, and Turkey are candidate countries, and Albania is not a member yet but will most likely seek to be one in the future.

The issue of what constitutes a developing Western country is a contentious one and needs to be addressed before we proceed further. Generally speaking, the designation of “developed” or “developing” is linked to economic and social indicators, but little agreement exists on what delineates the former versus the latter. However, even the United Nations is wary of such distinctions, and states that the designations of “developed” and “developing” are intended for statistical convenience and do not necessarily express a judgment about the stage reached by a particular country or area in the development process (United Nations Statistics Division, 2011). A number of countries that we will be examining have also been classified as “transition countries/economies,” meaning they are moving from a centrally-planned economy to a free-market one (Fischer & Gelb, 1991). For the sake of the present chapter, the classifications of “developing country” and/or “transition country” should be viewed in the context of organizational change and the way that the organizations in our target countries are developing towards systems consistent with advanced economies. Our classification groups together a heterogeneous group of countries in terms of history, politics, and organizational infrastructure. Thus, the reader is warned to treat our classification with the appropriate amount of suspicion. This caveat delivered, we proceed with a review of the theories of organizational change.





18.2 Theories of organizational change


There are a plethora of theories, frameworks, and models aimed at explaining and elucidating organizational change. The history and current status of the theories are covered in detail in Chapter 1. Thus, in keeping with the focus of this chapter on change and culture in organizations, we will be selective and review those models that are most useful to our discussion of developing countries.

In terms of the present chapter, we are interested in how theories of organizational change can help us to understand organizations in developing countries. In general, organizational theories of culture and change tend to be positive about the possibility that theories and frameworks can find appropriate solutions for organizational problems and elucidate organizational processes. Change and culture represent powerful forms of learning (in the broadest sense of that word), and learning provides us with a way to appreciate the work of Lewin (1951), Schien (1996), systems theories (Bausch, 2002), and complexity theories (Mason, 2007) in relation to organizations in developing countries.

John Dewey, and his view of organizations as organic, is our starting point. Dewey continually argued that education and learning were social and interactive processes, and he connected organizations with the communities around them. Dewey advocated that organizations must be involved in cultural reform and viewed them as having great transformative power (Dewey, 1930). His approach to change helps us appreciate the avenues through which complex systems teach us the purpose of an organization, and our role within it. Furthermore, he pointed to the importance of removing economic concerns as the main motivation for change. Such viewpoints have interesting echoes when we reflect on the way that developing economies have been shaped towards ­free-market ideologies.

Dewey viewed organizations as potential centers of edification and warned against using theory alone to change or transform them. He cautioned that theories are no more than a hunch about the best way to proceed (Weaver, 1997). Developing countries have experienced a myriad of social and cultural shocks to their political and social systems. Such shocks “force” organizations to learn what has happened and what will happen. In a sense, they have no choice but to transform into something different and thus learning becomes about survival. Finally, they need to learn what all the forced changes mean for how they relate with each other, in terms of both the internal and external environment. The fact that we tend to experience formal learning on an individual level explains why we find it difficult to imagine how an organization as an entity might learn. This probably explains why we tend to underemphasize the learning component of organizational change. Formal and (especially) informal learning represent important sources of change in terms of affective, cognitive, and behavioral aspects. Thus, the urgency to change in transition countries sharply elucidates the relationship between individual and collective learning, as the evolving organization also prompts individual evolution. Evolution, collectively and individually, is a transition to something different, rather than better.

The original three stages of change theory (change, unfreeze, and refreeze) proposed by Lewin (1951) have been surprisingly durable over the years. Weick & Quinn (1999) have argued that Lewin’s basic assertion that “you cannot understand a system until you try to change it” (Schein, 1996, p. 34) is the foundation of all successive theories. This assertion is particularly apt when one considers the degree to which the organizational and social systems in developing countries have undergone change in the last 30–40 years. Furthermore, the Van de Ven & Poole (1995) typology for theories of OD and change—life cycle, teleological, dialectical, and evolutionary—is useful for understanding why the experiences of organizations in developing countries resist easy categorization. In particular, the dialectical, which refers to conflicts/contradictions, helps us to appreciate the interesting contradiction in “opening” up markets via hierarchical approaches. In addition, their framework is analytically useful and the mode/unit of change pushes our focus towards process issues, which is useful when assessing the institutional tensions inherent in being forced to change while needing to use traditional ways (e.g. informal channels) of garnering support for change. Indeed, organizations like homeostasis or stability and usually only change when forced to or when they see an opportunity that is sufficiently large to warrant it. Otherwise, they prefer smaller evolutionary and incremental change. Chapter 1 reviews this issue very succinctly and discusses whether organizations really have the capacity for the kind of planned change that earlier OD/Lewinian practitioners espoused.

The concept of general system theory (GST) is concerned with how systems operate, and integrates a broad range of systems by naming and identifying patterns and processes common to all of them (Bertanlanffy, 1975). In GST, the distinction between open and closed systems is crucial. Historically, models and theories of organizations embraced the closed approach by assuming that the main features of an organization are its internal elements. Moreover, they probably underestimated the distinction between the structural components of a system and the system’s energy transfer/boundary permeability. The ­open-systems approach, on the other hand, views an organization’s connection with the external environment as important to its survival and success. In terms of our review of developing countries, this distinction between open and closed systems is very important, as one can imagine that firms in developing countries initially sought to erect stronger boundaries (in terms of both structure and energy) between themselves and surrounding systems (in contrast to US and North European efforts to build bridges with stakeholders). The ideas of Katz & Kahn (1978), who view organizations as consisting of patterns of behavioral events, help us to appreciate how historic legacy in terms of policy can have such a direct impact on organizational design. Complexity theory (Mason, 2007), which has common points of agreement with GST, looks at the microlevel in a complex system and evaluates how it influences emergent behavior and the overall outcome at the macrolevel (McKenzie & James, 2004). In terms of developing countries, both systems theory and complexity theory encapsulate the uncertainty that is a continuous feature of developing and transition economies, and these theories can be useful in explaining the behavior of organizations in coping with continuous change (Foster, 2005; Sherif, 2006; Sullivan, 2004).

The role of learning in change is evident in the work of Schein (1996) and the induction of learning anxiety as a process of unfreezing. According to Weick & Quinn (1999), organizations that are compatible with continuous change are built around ideas of improvisation, translation, and learning. Learning can be thought of as a change in the repertoire of responses at either an individual or an organizational level, or both (Sitkin et al., 1998). Similarly, learning is required in order for top managers to develop a teachable point of view (Cohen & Tichy, 1997). Learning is also required in order for leaders/managers to develop and convey their stories and ideas about what really matters to them, and the way that these narratives become included in organizational-change efforts. In a sense, our theories of organizational change and culture provide a framework for organizations in developing countries to “learn” what has happened, what is happening, and what will happen in the future.





18.3 Organizational Change in Developing Countries


Is organizational change in developing or transition countries different from that found in more developed countries? Our assumptions about culture would suggest that the answer to this question is “yes.” However, a review of the literature provides a mixed response. The recent history of CEE, with the transition from communism to liberal democracy, represents a significant and “natural” example of organizational change. Examining this period from a narrow organizational perspective allows us to view it as an interesting example of forced change. There is an assumption that organizations in developing/transition economies are using old templates and scripts that do not foster adaptive change and organizational transformation. However, Chiaburu (2006) seriously questions such an idea and prompts us to reflect on whether organizational-science researchers are using the appropriate theories to capture the reality of transition economies.

For example, the excellent review by Armenakis & Bedeian (1999) provides a useful framework through which to analyze the organizational-change literature. These authors identify four themes common to all change efforts: (1) content issues—focused on the substance of contemporary organizational changes; (2) contextual issues—the forces or conditions that exist in an organization’s external and internal environments; (3) process issues—the actions undertaken during the enactment of an intended change; and (4) criterion issues—the outcomes commonly assessed in organizational-change efforts.

How easily can this typology be applied to developing countries? The degree to which we can use these themes might be limited, as context and process issues may predominate in developing countries. At a basic level, we can think of organizational behavior in terms of formal (e.g. laws) and informal (e.g. ways of communication) rules. The transition of developing countries to market economics has resulted in a significant change in the formal rules. For example, organizations have worked hard to project ideals concerning career development, team-building, formal appraisal systems, and collective vision/mission statements. In short, they have attempted to convince the world that they are governed by meritocracy and equality, like their Western models. However, it is probable that informal constraints survive because they attend to participants’ exchange needs (North, 1990), meaning that individuals are still culturally programmed to believe that “things happen” informally. In addition, as noted by Chiaburu (2006), some organizations in developing countries may engage in “ceremonial adoption,” meaning that they implement practices that are not internalized.

The distinction between formal and informal aspects of an organization is highlighted by a recent literature review of employee attitudes towards organizational change by Choi (2011). This review identified readiness for change, commitment to change, openness to change, and cynicism about organizational change as being the key variables in the literature. Overall, the review concludes that the accumulated evidence suggests that situational conditions have the most significant impact on employee attitudes towards organizational change.

Examining this review from an attitudinal perspective, Choi (2011) found that change-specific attitudes (commitment to change, cynicism) were better predictors of support or resistance to change than were general attitude variables. The importance of cultural norms in developing countries means that specific attitudinal variables are more likely to be informed by the informal rules, as opposed to the formal ones. On the other hand, we can also find evidence which suggests that transition countries show patterns of organizational change we would expect to find in capitalist countries. For example, King (2001), who attempted to address the question of how we create capitalism, conducted case studies among organizations in Hungary, Slovakia, Slovenia, and the Czech Republic and identified 11 strategies used by public firms when converting to private ownership. These strategies were quite varied and were consistent with the patterns we might expect to find in similar programs in the USA or the UK. Roe et al. (2001) examined the impact of privatization on the motivation of workers in Bulgarian and Hungarian firms. Their data showed that there was no evidence that public-sector workers were less motivated than employees in private-owned firms. We are left with the problem of whether developing countries look more like developed ones when we view them through a “Western” lens.

Clark (2008) suggests that organizational-change processes in transition countries can follow three different patterns. First, they can follow a path of inertia and continuity, which represents a path of reluctance. Second, they can attempt to mimic Western practices—however, such attempts at revolution can lead to more resistance. Third, they can develop a hybrid of the new and old ways of working, laying the seeds of further change.

Clark’s ideas have much in common with the work of Prochaska & DiClemente on individual behavior change among individuals (Prochaska et al., 1994, 2012). In essence, their transtheoretical model (TTM) outlines individuals’ health-behavior changes as progressing through specific stages: precontemplation, contemplation, preparation, action, and termination. In their stage model, individuals go back and forward through the stages, and can repeat cycles by returning to early stages. The TTM model has been applied to organizational theory (Prochaska et al., 2001) and represents an interesting framework for thinking about how change in developing countries might be characterized by such cycles.





18.4 Country Profiles


In this section, we will review literature from a sample of countries considered Western developing countries. The purpose is to provide the reader with a contextual picture in order to more fully appreciate the factors that might influence organizational change in these countries. Relatively little literature exists on the topic of organizational change in developing countries, and we have confined ourselves to research published in the English language. Thus, the profiles are selective, but they do provide the reader with a picture of emerging trends in this region.





18.4.1 Romania


Romania is located in the south east of Europe and has a population of 21 million plus. It is one of the largest countries in CEE and its transition process is considered more problematic than those of some of its CEE neighbors. Candea & Candea (2001) suggest that transition problems in Romania (post-1989) were rooted in a lack of managerial competence. In essence, the managers who inherited a new Romania after 1990 carried communist ideologies with them, slowing real transition by at least a generation. The authors cite research (including their own) indicating that the majority of Romanian managers were inexperienced with regard to the need for an organization to develop a marketing, strategy, or organizational culture. Grigorută (2006), in a study of Romanian managers, explored their readiness to move towards cultural diversity and integration within the EU. The managers studied reported a preoccupation with aspects connected to the dimensions of organizational culture and an orientation towards individual and organizational change concerning the “acceptance” of a new system of values. Additionally, Lederan et al. (2011) interviewed Romanian entrepreneurs, before and after Romania’s ascension to the EU, and found that institutional change prompted the copying of Western approaches in an attempt to gain legitimacy. Aioanei (2006), in a study of leadership values among Romanians, concluded that attitudes towards leaders fit the “Military Man” pattern, meaning leaders were inclined towards less involvement of subordinates, frequently retained the final decision, and made use of coercion to gain compliance.





18.4.2 Bulgaria


The history of Bulgaria is marked by its location near Europe’s frontier with Asia. Some 85% of the population is Orthodox Christian and 13% is Muslim. Around 10% of the populations is of Turkish origin, while 3% is Roma. Bulgaria has a population of 6.7 million people and is transitioning from communist rule to a political democracy and market economy (Manolova & Yan, 2002). Dadak (1995), in a field study of 45 Bulgarian executives, observed that the problems they experienced were rooted in governmental inefficiency, bureaucratic obstruction, high taxes, and outdated and inconsistent legislation. Equally, Ilieva (1999), in a study of state employees experiencing the transition from 1990 to 1997, found that job satisfaction, involvement, and commitment all decreased in this period, and that employees felt less loyalty towards their organizations. Such research is consistent with our picture of an economy in transition, but it stands in sharp contrast to the research of Judgea & Elenkov (2005). These authors evaluated the relationship between an organization’s capacity for change and its environmental performance within manufacturing organizations. They were interested in organizational capacity for change and embedded their research in a resource-based approach to organizational change, and they found that their measure of capacity of change was related to environmental performance. Their research, contrary to some stereotypic beliefs about developing countries, suggests that Bulgarian firms rank environmental concerns highly.





18.4.3 Turkey


Turkey, with an estimated population of more than 70 million, is a developing country that represents a bridge between the East and the West. This means that it is both part of Europe and part of Asia or the Middle East. Commentators acknowledge that while certain subcultural differences exist in Turkish society in terms of the conflict between traditionalism and modernism (Aldemir et al., 2003; Danşiman, 2010; Humphreys & Brown, 2002), certain overarching values and assumptions can be identified (Pasa et al., 2001; Sargut, 2001). Danisman (2010) presents an interesting case study in a construction firm, where a new leader attempted to introduce more professional relationships and roles among the staff (e.g. more clearly defined management roles); these attempts failed, and Danisman concludes that Turkish cultural values were a significant barrier to change.

Danisman’s research can be contrasted with work by Aycan & Kanungo (2000) on the relationships between organizational culture and human-resources styles in Turkey. Their research indicated a preference for a paternalistic style. According to the authors, in accordance with Turkish culture, employees expect their manager or leader to be open and participative and to protect the interests of employees, share their problems and achievements, foster their professional development, and create a family-like environment. The leadership styles described by these authors are consistent with the open/supportive and participative leadership approaches that might be extolled in the Harvard Business Review. Thus, one can imagine the confusion between the expected managerial roles in Turkish organizations and the private and family roles valued by Turkish society.





18.4.4 Greece


Greece, with an estimated population of 11.2 million, represents a special case in our discussion of the region. It is certainly not a transition economy, and the definition of the country as “developing” is not quite correct. This problem is partly due to the fact that Greece entered the EU quite early on, compared to the other countries in the region, and its cost and standard of living are more comparable with Italy and Spain than with Bulgaria or Albania. Interestingly, the ambiguity as to which economic “club” it belongs to is mirrored in the existing research on organizational change, whereby some researchers (e.g. Bellou, 2007; Tomprou et al., 2012; Vakola et al., 2004) take a relatively context-free approach to organizational change, while others (e.g. Joiner, 2001) view the context as being central to understanding such a process. Vakola et al. (2004), in a study of willingness to accept organizational change among professionals, found that emotional intelligence and personality were important factors. Similarly, Bellou (2007), in a study of nonmanagerial employees who had undergone a merger or acquisition, found that such changes had an impact on their psychological contract in the new organization. Additionally, recent research concerning Greek bank employees by Tomprou et al. (2012) found that experience of organizational change was not related to perceptions of the breach of a psychological contract, but rather to feelings of contract violation. The authors speculate that this unusual result might be related to the fact that bank employees experience organizational change as commonplace. Interestingly, close reading of all the aforementioned research indicates little discussion of Greek cultural values as a factor in organizational change. In stark contrast, Joiner (2001), in a small sample of middle managers, found that centralization and high levels of formalization were associated with lower reported job stress (but not managerial performance). Joiner (2001) argues that this organizational culture is congruent with Greek societal values of high power distance and strong uncertainty avoidance. The Joiner (2001) findings suggest that Greek societal values are important to understanding organizational change. Ultimately, such contradictions are celebrated in a well-known Greek joke that Greece has inherited the worst aspects of both capitalism and socialism. The joke symbolizes the contradictions found in trying to elucidate organizational change in a country at the crossroads of the EU and Asia Minor.

The current financial problems in Greece are having an enormous social and psychological impact on both public and private organizations. The psychological contract between employers and employees has been torn to shreds and the informal arrangements which previously held organizations together are now the source of conflict. For example, in the private sector, the common (illegal) practice of delaying monthly salary payments until some future date is no longer tenable as employers rush towards bankruptcy and employees initiate robust industrial action. In the public sector, there are attempts to rationalize all areas, and hiring/salary “freezes” are pushing morale to low depths. Greece is now undergoing a transition that might look somewhat like the transition that its Balkan neighbors experienced in moving from communism to Western capitalism. A mix of unpredictability, mistrust, and the feeling of not having autonomy means that private life and work life are more integrated than ever before, but not in a positive way.





18.4.5 Albania


After the collapse of communism in the early 1990s, Albania, with a population of 3.6 million (this probably underestimates the movement of Albanians to neighboring countries), made a decisive choice for democracy and free-market economics. Since then, its progress towards these goals has been variable, and it is considered to represent a “difficult case” when compared with other post-communist countries (Duffy, 2000; Elbasani, 2009). Albania tends to rank low in conventional sociopolitical integration indices because it is a country with a complex religious configuration, comprising a Muslim majority (a Sunni and Shiite community) and substantial Christian communities. Llaci et al. (2003) present some interesting reflections on what leadership looks like in Albanian organizations. According to these authors, the belief that businesses need to develop leaders is quite new and the prevailing model of leadership in enterprises is a nonparticipative one. Sinanaj & Dollani (2010) attempt to evaluate the organizational challenges for Albanian exporting companies and identify the following issues as being critical: human-resources skills, knowledge of foreign languages, and management of export documentation. Reflecting on these aspects, the authors conclude that external and not internal forces represent the only hope for change. The future for Albania is uncertain, but it did join NATO in April 2009 and it is a potential candidate for EU accession. Although Albania’s economy continues to grow, the country is still one of the poorest in Europe, hampered by a large informal economy and an inadequate energy and transportation infrastructure (World Factbook, 2011). Albania’s dependence on external influence is highlighted by the fact that remittances (from Albanians mainly in Italy and Greece) are a significant catalyst for economic growth (9% of GDP in 2009).





18.4.6 Hungary


Hungary is a landlocked state with many neighbors—Slovakia, Ukraine, Romania, Serbia, Croatia, Slovenia, and Austria. It has an estimated population of 10 million and it entered the EU in 2004. Czaban & Whitley (2000) argue that Hungarian enterprises are among the most likely to have moved away from the state-socialist past, due to increasing foreign ownership in the manufacturing industry during the 1990s (Radice, 1995) and market reforms between 1968 and 1989 that led to the growth of quasi-private and private firms in the small- and medium-sized-firm sector (Berend, 1990). In essence, Hungary was moving towards market liberalization before the 1990s, and by 1991 Hungary had a significantly larger proportion of foreign joint ventures and foreign investment than its formerly ­state-socialist neighbors (Pearce & Branyiczki, 1993). Pearce & Branyiczki (1993), using longitudinal case studies, charted the successful transition of an advertising agency and the unsuccessful transition of a porcelain factory from state-owned enterprise to market liberalization. Interestingly, the case studies revealed that both organizations experienced very low levels of resistance to change. The authors ponder as to whether this was a result of the change being personally threatening and thus leading to a “sink-or-swim” mentality, or whether the lack of resistance was simply a reflection of employees who had been “educated” in a state-owned culture where questioning was not encouraged. Overall, the Hungarian picture is a mixed one, and Czaban & Whitley (2000), who evaluated the impact of market liberalization in the 1990s in 18 leading Hungarian enterprises, concluded that the behavior of the Hungarian enterprises displayed more continuity than qualitative changes.





18.4.7 The Czech Republic


The Czech Republic, with an estimated population of 10.5 million, became an independent state in January 1993 after Czechoslovakia split into its two constituent parts (the other being Slovakia). Before World War II, Czechoslovakia was one of the 10 most industrialized states in the world, and the only central European country to remain a democracy until 1938. The Czech Republic and Slovakia underwent significant changes during the period 1969–1985, following the reestablishment of hierarchical and autocratic structures after the revolt in 1968.

Danis et al. (2011) have argued that because of the nature of the Czech transition, which was unique in many respects, the country experienced a sharper break from its communist past than did most other transitional countries. The authors, in their comparative analysis of generation cohorts of Czech managers, show how pre- and post-1989 generations differed in terms of values and ideas about upward influence. Such observation are also reflected in the earlier research of Soulsby & Clark (1996), whose interviewees displayed a strong sense of Czech identity, but also demonstrated a feeling that they ought to take control of their own destiny and exhibited a certain suspicion of foreign business. Skoda-Volkswagen is often cited as the positive example of transition, but the record in the Czech Republic is mixed. Newman (1998) provides a detailed analysis of Czech success stories, such as Aero Vodochody and PBS, and of the less-than-successful transitions of Zetor and Královopolská. Interestingly, Neman (1998) detailed analysis can be read either as an exemplar for strategic alliances with foreign multinationals or as a cautionary tale of how such efforts can falter.





18.4.8 Slovenia


Previously one of Yugoslavia’s six constituent republics, Slovenia became independent in 1991 as Yugoslavia broke apart. It is bordered by Italy, Austria, Hungary, and Croatia. Slovenia joined the EU in 2004 and has an estimated population of 2 million. It is considered the role model for how to successfully move from a socialist to a market economy (Edwards & Lawrence, 2000; Reardon et al., 2005). For example, it became a full member of both the EU and NATO in 2004, and adopted the euro in 2007. It is considered the most economically developed of the “new” countries, and has overtaken two old EU member states (Greece and Portugal) in terms of per capita GDP. This successful transition was not without bumps, and initially Slovenian managerial expertise with respect to core commercial activities such as marketing, general management, and financial management was notably deficient (Edwards & Lawrence, 2000). However, the subsequent success is highlighted by the research of Cadez & Guilding (2007), which indicates that Slovenia’s adoption of strategic management accounting is quite advanced and compares favorably with that of countries such as Australia.





18.4.9 Croatia


Croatia became an independent state in 1991, following the break-up of the former Yugoslavia. It has an estimated population of 4.4 million. Croatia is set to become the 28th member of the EU in 2013. Much like Slovenia, it represents a success story in terms of transition, and research indicates (again like Slovenia) that top-down approaches and informal routes are still characteristics of the organizational landscape. For example, Perkov et al. (2008), in a study of Croatian managers, reported a hierarchical approach to change processes in enterprises, with CEOs and board members directing change. Additionally, Dimovski et al. (2008), in a study of organizational learning that compared Croatian, Slovenian, and Malaysian organizations, found that Slovenian and Croatian companies more frequently used internal sources (such as previous decisions and their own employees) and that Slovenian and Croatian managers were more likely to use personal contacts and informal team meetings when trying to understand the meaning of information they had acquired. Croatia, much like Slovenia, is expected to be one of the success stories of transition. However, both countries still rely on heavy state involvement and thus the future is still somewhat fragile.





18.5 The Model of Organizational Change in Developing Countries


The relatively small amount of literature available makes it difficult to arrive at a model of organizational change in developing countries. Economists, sociologists, and political scientists have dominated the analysis of organizational change, with relatively few organizational scientists contributing to this literature. This represents an important opportunity for organizational theorists. According to Chiaburu (2006), many of the current frameworks of analysis are limited in part because they are presented as value-free, ideologically-neutral, and natural rather than constructed. As a result, they sometimes fail to capture important factors related to transition. For example, Aioanei (2006) argues that diversity in Romania can be explained through the different kinds of occupation that the Romanian people have had to bear during their history: Russian influence, especially in the eastern part of the country; German influences in Bucovina due to the Austro-Hungarian occupation; Ottoman occupation, with influences that can be seen in the southern part of the country; and Hungarian influences in the western part. Thus, organizational-change models are limited by the embeddedness and pervasiveness of the culture.

Newman (2000), who is a rare example of a researcher who has attempted to conceptualize organizational change in CEE, concludes that organizational transformation by indigenous managers will be rare until “the institutional context becomes more predictable.” This assessment may be pessimistic, but it is consistent with the views of researchers who suggest that the conventional research cycle (conceptualize, design, measure, analyze, and report) does not work very well in hyperturbulent environments (Meyer et al., 1993). The entry of multinational organizations into the markets of developing countries is a large part of the story of transition, and Xia et al. (2009) examined the experience of 219 US firms that entered the Czech Republic, Estonia, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, the Slovak Republic, Slovenia, Bulgaria, Romania, and Croatia, finding that hierarchical approaches to entry dominated. Thus, we might wonder to what degree foreign firms are reinforcing preexisting organizational cultures. It’s a “chicken-and-egg” situation, whereby uncertainty makes hierarchical approaches more attractive, but hierarchical approaches are reinforcing uncertainty.

One possible way forward can be found in the recent review by Oreg et al. (2011), which looked at individuals’ reactions to organizational change. These authors encourage researchers to make distinctions between pre-change antecedents, change antecedents, explicit reactions, and change consequences, and to reflect these distinctions in the terminology they use. Care must be taken with this approach, and the authors themselves cite organizational commitment and job satisfaction, which can be considered an example of a pre-change antecedent as well as of change consequences. Additionally, the authors recommend that researchers should distinguish between affective, cognitive, and behavioral aspects when analyzing explicit reactions to organizational change. Overall, the proposed model represents an interesting way for researchers to more fully capture the cultural and informal elements present in developing countries, while also restraining themselves from adopting a perspective that inflates the influence of local color.

The study of organizational change in developing/transition countries provides an opportunity for us to study enterprises in “extreme” political and economic circumstances, which can reveal theoretical issues in new ways by making apparent normally hidden factors and processes (Eisenhardt, 1989; Soulsby & Clark, 2007). It’s far too simplistic to characterize these countries as places where organizations were feverishly “playing catch-up” to transform themselves into a resemblance of more-developed Western organizations. The socialist system from which they emerged was one that extolled the virtues of labor and the social role of organizations.

Socialist systems also contained some interesting aspects with regard to their attitudes towards equal opportunities and gender. For example, the Bulgarian socialist government, like other socialist governments, invested great effort into projecting the image of “the socialist woman” as a worker, an activist, and a mother, to such an extent that some researchers have suggested that public space and discourse were overwhelmed with “womanhood” (Kotzeva, 1995, p. 73; Kotzeva & Todorova, 1994, p. 30). Such notions have an interesting resonance now, when we consider the contemporary gender problems in the workplace.

As noted by Soulsby & Clark (2007), organizational processes perceived from a Western perspective as economic and instrumental mechanisms, when placed within a post-socialist context with strong and continuing cultural resonances can become issues of wider human meaning and moral commitment. Ironically, the need to change probably led to organizations initially adopting defensive positions. Indeed, Newman (2000) argues, counterintuitively, that beyond a certain level of institutional change, instead of increasing the likelihood of organizational transformation, as suggested by some organizational-change theories, the intense need to change in a new free-market environment probably made organizations more likely to resort to the comfort of familiar routines. This idea is certainly consistent with the observation by Weick & Quinn (1999) that in order to understand organizational change, one must first understand organizational inertia, its content, its tenacity, and its interdependencies.

The evaluation of the evidence in developing countries is severely limited by the fact that we have little information concerning the really significant and inevitable organizational changes that must have occurred in state institutions such as the police force and civil service. There is no doubt that the way that police forces evolved (especially in post-communist regimes) provided a social thermometer as to how effectively Western approaches were being adopted. For example, Gorenak’s (2006) paper regarding the organizational changes in the Slovenian police force from 1989 to 1996, while largely descriptive, still fuels our imagination as to the probable level of change that the organization had to undergo post-communism. Overall, the difficulty of locating literature on organizational change in developing countries may partly reflect the fact that certain experiences were difficult to capture using standard organizational analytic methodologies.





18.6 The Special Case of Health Care


Thus far, we have recognized the limitations inherent in the exploration of culture and change in developing countries. In the interests of attempting a more systematic analysis, we will now examine the health-care industry, which represents a significant employer in developing countries.

The relatively little literature available on organizational change in developing countries means that analyses comparing theoretical approaches taken or methodologies used to accomplish change are difficult. This limits our ability to reach meaningful conclusions with regard to specific aspects of organizational change and culture. The health-care sector, however, allows some comparison and analysis. The health-care sector is one of the major employers in the Central European and South East European region, and the changing landscape of health care represents a significant sector for organizational change, with these change efforts predicted to accelerate. For example, between 2003 and 2007/2008, per capita health-care expenditure rose in all European countries (European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions, 2011), and some countries had dramatic increases, such as Romania (171%), Greece (91%), Bulgaria (51%), and 22% Hungary (22%). Some of these countries may have been starting from a low base, but the trend upward is noteworthy. Hospitals in developing countries, in tandem with global trends, are faced with a need to initiate organizational systems that address quality of care and health-care professional well-being. Patient care is moving towards a ­customer-focused approach, and health-care professionals are under increasing pressure to improve their ability to demonstrate teamwork, interprofessional cooperation, leadership in a medical team, and effective management of medical mistakes.

Health is a good example of an industry requiring effective teamwork. Whenever things go wrong in health care, reports (Institute of Medicine, 1999), inquiries (Special Commission of Inquiry into Campbelltown and Camden Hospitals, 2004), and studies (Forster et al., 2004) show that a significant factor undermining the quality of patient care is the delivery of medical treatment in a fragmented, isolated way, with health-care professionals failing to collaborate effectively. It seems reasonable to assume that similar patterns will be observed in developing countries, where health-care professionals have less organizational resources available to them. In health care, at least, organizational culture and role behavior are significant levers influencing organizational change (Montgomery et al., 2011).

To date, the majority of the evidence concerning health-care change and quality of care has been collected in Northern Europe and North America. Developing countries represent a relatively unchartered area with regard to the monitoring and benchmarking of organizational hospital culture, employee well-being, and quality of care. The evidence which does exist suggests that the work conditions of health-care professionals in these emerging countries are likely to be even more demanding and challenging than those in Northern Europe and North America. For example, an EU survey (European Foundation for the Improvement of Working and Living Conditions, 2002a) asking individuals whether they were satisfied with their national health-care system indicated significantly lower rates of satisfaction in CEE countries such as Turkey (24%), Greece (24%), and Romania (26%), than the EU-15 average of 62%. Additionally, evidence from Croatia (Mastilica & Chen, 1998) revealed that Croatian citizens were dissatisfied with health services in general (44%) and with the quality of health facilities and equipment in particular (48%).

Such statistics strongly suggest a less than satisfactory environment for both health-care professionals and patients in CEE. Dramatic changes in health-care policy, and the organizational change that they prompt, have been identified as important factors. For example, Szócska et al. (2005), analyzing health care in Hungary, chart the negative and direct impact that policies lacking strategic goals have on organizational change within health care. Indeed, data from a country such as Bulgaria indicate that employment and working conditions in health care have been strongly affected by the “neoliberal” public-sector reforms introduced under pressure from the international financial institutions (the International Monetary Fund, World Bank, etc.), which have imposed budgetary stringency. The health-care sector in Bulgaria has witnessed a drastic reduction in number of jobs, along with falling wages. Between 1990 and 2002, more than 47 500 jobs were lost, with nurses, midwives, and similar groups most affected (Daskalova, 2006). The major social and political changes in developing countries have given rise to a special need to examine the issues concerning work, employment, and well-being. More specifically, globalization and the need to adapt to the EU marketplace have prompted both rapid economic development and technological advancement in this region. The pressure to adapt to changing market conditions, layered on top of the already-existing cultural and political history, presents challenges for both policy-makers and researchers interested in the successful adaptation of individuals to a satisfactory and productive working life. In some instances, the adaptation of countries to the EU and free-market economics has had the net effect of reducing quality-of-work conditions and increasing stress levels. A survey of all occupations within Europe (European Foundation for the Improvement of Working and Living Conditions, 2002b) suggests that developing countries report higher stress levels than their EU-15 counterparts, with 40.2% of individuals in Turkey, 47.8% in Greece, 40.3% in Romania, and 32.4% Slovenia reporting that they found their work stressful, compared with an EU-15 average of 31%. The reported data are from the whole working population, but they are suggestive of a qualitatively different working experience in developing countries.





18.7 The Hospital: A Unique Organizational Environment


Organizational culture determines how individuals behave, what people pay attention to, how they respond to different situations, and how they socialize with new members and exclude those who do not fit in (Spataro, 2005). The Institute of Medicine (IOM) in the USA has repeatedly highlighted the link between patient safety, physician well-being, and organizational culture (Institute of Medicine, 1999, 2001). Although hospitals represent a unique organizational environment, relatively little systematic research exists with regard to how this contributes to stress and well-being (Montgomery et al., 2011). Hospitals staffs consist of a wide variety of professionals, both medical and nonmedical, and the stressors/strains experienced by health-care professionals are a combination of patient-driven demands and organizational factors specific to the hospital environment.

To date, workplace interventions aimed at physicians have focused on the professional role rather than the organizational context. The lack of concern given to the organizational context has important implications for health-care professionals globally, but may have special significance for developing countries given the societal pressures already noted there. In a comparison of Turkish public and private hospitals, Seren & Baykal (2007) found that health-care professionals in hospitals dominated by power cultures were less likely to accept change than those working in collaborative cultures. Not surprisingly, a collaborative culture was more likely to be found in private hospitals, as opposed to public. Similarly, Türköz (2004), in a private hospital, found that a positive attitude towards organizational change could be encouraged by participation in quality circles, commission studies, and project teams. In studies among Slovenian health-care professionals, researchers have reported that health-care professionals indicate low levels of personal involvement in the hospitals where they work, and tend to view the culture in their hospitals as being stable, having an internal focus, and being controlling (Savic & Pagon, 2008; Savic et al., 2007). This resistance is also echoed in the research of Szócska (2004), who in a review of organizational change in Hungarian health-care organizations concluded that failure was due to the managerial failures of change managers and to organizational resistance that change managers generated through their actions.

Overall, the trend in Europe is towards more privatization, and there is a growing movement towards making hospitals more self-managed and placing a greater emphasis on attracting patients and improving efficiency, quality, and the responsiveness of services (Busse et al., 2002). It’s probably too early to make predictions about the impact on hospitals in developing countries, but in Greece private hospitals are already increasing their market share compared with public hospitals, mainly because of the perceived shortcomings of the public health-care system.

Stress-management interventions for health-care professionals are based upon work-stress theories, such as the Karasek job-demand control theory (Karasek, 1979), that place particular emphasis on job control/job autonomy and undervalue the role that the hospital culture can play. Interestingly, a recent study evaluating work stress among eight hospitals in the EU (Pisljar et al., 2011) found that neither work control nor job/time autonomy was associated with the health of hospital employees. It concluded that interventions to prevent work stress must look more closely at interventions that help all hospital employees cope with their growing workload, longer hours, and unsocial schedules. This is in agreement with research showing that work control reduces the impact of work stress on health only when employees cope actively with work stress (De Jonge & Kompier, 1997). According to a review of sickness absence among health-care workers by Michie & Williams (2003), intervention studies have focused mainly on staff training, to the detriment of employment practices and management style.

Finally, a review of interventions aimed at the reduction of burnout among physicians (McCray et al., 2008) reports that there is a paucity of evidence on what actually works. All the data that we have reviewed suggest that understanding and prevention of job stress among physicians can be aided by looking at the hospital organization as a unique point of analysis. For example, the growing literature indicates that disruptions in the operating theater in hospitals (Rivera-Rodriguez & Karsh, 2010) are an added stressor that has the potential to contribute to errors (Sevdalis et al., 2008). Since such stressors are hospital-specific, it would be valuable to have data on operating-room interruptions in developing countries. We can speculate that interruptions are probably more intense in environments with close family relationships and more-fluid professional boundaries.

Looking to the future, the National Health Service in the UK is attempting to reduce visits to hospitals by promoting more home-based treatment. Such changes might actually be more easily achieved in developing countries, where families live in closer proximity to one another (compared with Northern European countries).





18.8 Conclusion


The ongoing transition of developing countries in Central and South Eastern Europe represents an important vantage point from which to examine questions concerning organizational culture and change. The limited study of the societal and work values and cultures of organizations in the region should cause us to wonder how adequately our organizational theories account for the history of organizational change in this region. As noted by authors like Chiaburu (2006), organizational theories imported from Western experiences, which have a high emphasis on instrumental rationality, are less likely to offer a plausible account of organizational patterns. Stark (1996) makes the interesting observation that individuals in a post-socialist context are rebuilding organizations and institutions “not on the ruins but with the ruins of communism” (p. 995) as they redeploy available resources in response to their problems.

In terms of OD and change, our review of the literature allows us to conclude that the assumption that the rapid liberalization of the former state-socialist economies will lead (eventually) to efficient capitalist enterprises is not supported by the research. If anything, this process has generated uncertainty and a siege mentality, which has tended to inhibit organizational restructuring and strategic change. That said, we must be balanced in our assessment and acknowledge that even in US and European companies, success rates are not spectacular regarding efforts to change vision, values, and culture or business systems and processes (Beer & Nohria, 2000; Beer et al., 1990; Carr et al., 1996).

Management style is an important factor in the way that organizations change and organizational cultures develop. It is difficult to assess to what degree managers within developing countries have evolved. Management education, utilizing developed-nation models, has flourished in the region. However, the observation by Edwards & Lee (1999) that it is difficult to identify whether foreign practices are simply being adopted or a distinctive regional model of management formation is emerging is still appropriate. Indeed, it is important to remember that managerial training was an important element of the Soviet system, and that specialist centers were established in East Germany, Romania, and Yugoslavia under the communist regime (Granick, 1975; Warner, 1990). There is no doubt that these centers were ideologically different from Western models of management, but one shouldn’t assume that in the early days of transition MBA’s were being imprinted on tabula rasa managerial minds. The history of management development in developing countries, pre- and post-transition, could elucidate much regarding how we understand organizations in developing countries.

Future trends will undoubtedly be influenced by the explosion of social networking sites on the Internet, and a flattening world is providing new opportunities for different values to emerge. We look forward to seeing how this new medium will change identity and the way we feel about organizations. The frameworks reviewed in this chapter (Oreg et al., 2011; Van de Ven & Poole, 1995; Weick & Quinn, 1999) provide good analytical tools for organizational scientists to use in capturing culture and change, and we should always have in mind Dewey’s belief that theories are merely a hunch about how we should proceed (Dewey, 1930). Heraclitus, the philosophical father of change, is credited with the observation that one cannot step into the same river twice. This observation rings true when we consider that river water is continuously changing, but it shouldn’t obscure the more interesting psychological fact that we as people are never the same. Thus, the very act of plunging our organizational lens into the river of developing countries transforms both us and them. The call to study organizational becoming over organizational stability (Tsoukas & Chia, 2002) recognizes that a focus on process in future research has a better of chance of identifying the microflux that is the ongoing work which individuals need to do in order for organizations to be organized. Such ideas have particular resonance for developing countries, where the process can be everything.

We have reviewed health care and hospitals from an organizational perspective. Hospitals are very interesting organizations because the culture of medicine is similar across the globe and physicians (especially) are educated to take a very specific role in an organization. Unlike other professionals, physicians are educated to be clinicians first, and their role as a leader, team member, or manager is secondary. Thus, physicians have a tendency to view the purpose of a hospital as primarily to support their clinical work. Mintzberg (1997) has written directly on the issue of hospital cultures, and strongly insists that real organizational change can be effected only by a gradual bottom-up approach that doesn’t threaten the roles that individuals have established within the organization. Public hospitals, with their bureaucracy, hierarchical nature, and well-established systems, are good places to observe transitions towards a more market-based and customer-led culture. They crystallize for us the problem that remains: what should developing organizations develop into?





References


Aioanei, I. (2006). Leadership in Romania. Journal of Organizational Change Management, 19, 705–712.

Aldemir, M.C., Arbak, Y., & Özmen, Ö.N.T. (2003). Türkiye’de işgörme anlayışı: Tanımı ve boyutları [Work mentality in Turkey: its definition and dimensions]. Yönetim Araştırmaları Dergisi/Journal of Management Research, 3(1), 5–28.

Armenakis, A.A. & Bedeian, A.G. (1999). Organizational change: a review of theory and research in the 1990s. Journal of Management, 25, 293–315.

Aycan, Z. & Kanungo, R.N. (2000). Topolumsal kültürün kurumsal kültür ve insan kaynakları uygulamalari üzerine etkileri. [Effects of social culture on organizational culture and human resources practices]. In Z. Aycan, editor. Management, Leadership, and Human Resources Practices in Turkey. Istanbul, Turkey: DETAM.

Bausch, K. (2002). Roots and branches: a brief, picaresque, personal history of systems theory. Systems Research and Behavioral Science, 19(5), 417–428.

Beer, M. & Nohria, N. (2000). Cracking the code of change. Harvard Business Review, 47, 127–131.

Beer M., Eisenstat, R.A., & Spector B. (1990). The Critical Path to Corporate Renewal. Boston, MA: Harvard Business School.

Bellou V. (2007). Psychological contract assessment after a major organizational change: the case of mergers and acquisitions. Employee Relations, 29, 68–88.

Berend, I.T. (1990). The Hungarian Economic Reforms 1953–1988. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press.

Boulding, K. (1956). General systems theory—the skeleton of science. Management Science, 2(1), 197–208.

Busse, R., Grinter, T., & Svensson, P.G. (2002). Regulating entrepreneurial behaviour in hospitals: theory and practice. In R.B. Saltman, editor. Regulating Entrepreneurial Behaviour in European Health Care Systems. European Observatory on Health Care Systems series. Maidenhead, UK: Open University Press. pp. 126–145.

Cadez, S. & Guilding, C. (2007). Benchmarking the incidence of strategic management accounting in Slovenia. Journal of Accounting & Organizational Change, 3, 126–146.

Candea, D. & Candea, R.M. (2001). Understanding and managing changes to Romanian companies during transition. In Denison, D.R. (2001). Managing Organizational Change in Transition Economies. Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates. pp. 93–124.

Carr, D., Hard, K., & Trahant, W. (1996). Managing the Change Process: A Field Book for Change Agents, Consultants, Team Leaders, and Reengineering Managers. New York: McGraw-Hill.

Chiaburu, D.S. (2006). Managing organizational change in transition economies. Journal of Organizational Change Management, 19, 738–746.

Choi, M. (2011). Employees’ attitudes toward organizational change: a literature review. Human Resource Management, 50, 479–500.

Clark, E. (2008). The post-socialist transformation and global process: knowledge and institution building in organisational settings. In C.S. Smith, B. McSweeney, & R. Fitzgerald, editors. Remaking Management: Between Global and Local. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press. pp. 128–155.

Cohen, E. & Tichy, N. (1997). How leaders develop leaders. Training & Development, 51, 58–74.

Czaban, L. & Whitley, R (2000). Incremental organizational change in a transforming society: managing turbulence in Hungary in the 1990s. Journal of Management Studies, 37, 371–393.

Danis, W.M., Liu, L.A., & Vacek, J. (2011). Values and upward influence strategies in transition: evidence from the Czech Republic. Journal of Cross-cultural Psychology, 42, 288–306.

Danısman, A. (2010). Good intentions and failed implementations: understanding culture-based resistance to organizational change. European Journal of Work and Organisational Psychology, 19, 200–220.

Daskalova, N. (2006). Social Dialogue Develops in Healthcare Sector. Institute for Social and Trade Union Research.

De Jonge, J. & Kompier, M.A.J. (1997). A critical examination of the demand control-support model from a work psychological perspective. International Journal of Stress Management, 4, 235–258.

Denison, D.R. (2001). Managing organizational change in transition economies. Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates.

Dewey, J. (1930). Individualism Old and New. New York: Minton, Balch.

Dimovski, V., Skerlavaj, M., Kimman, M., & Hernaus, T. (2008). Comparative analysis of the organisational learning process in Slovenia, Croatia, and Malaysia. Expert Systems with Applications, 34, 3063–3070.

Duffy, T. (2000). Albania: beyond the Hoxha’s legacy. In W. Kostecki, K. Zukrowska, & B. Goralczyk, editors. Transformations of Post-Communist States. London: Macmillan.

Edwards, V. & Lawrence, P.A. (2000). Management in Eastern Europe. Basingstoke, UK: Macmillan.

Edwards, V. & Lee, G. (1999). Models of management formation: implications for Central and Eastern Europe. Journal of East European Management Studies, 4, 292–305.

Eisenhardt, K.M. (1989). Building theories from case study research. Academy of Management Review, 14, 532–550.

Elbasani, A. (2009) Political transformation and implementation of EU democratic requirements in Albania. In Integration Perspectives and Synergic Effects of European Transformation in the Countries Targeted by EU Enlargement and Neighborhood Policies. Budapest, Hungary: Centre for EU Enlargement Studies.

European Foundation for the Improvement of Working and Living Conditions. (2002a). EurLIFE—Satisfaction with the national health care system. Available from http://www.eurofound.europa.eu/areas/qualityoflife/eurlife/index.php?template=3&radioindic=14&idDomain=1. Last accessed 12/04/12.

European Foundation for the Improvement of Working and Living Conditions. (2002b). EurLIFE—Find work stressful. Available from http://www.eurofound.europa.eu/areas/qualityoflife/eurlife/index.php?template=3&radioindic=21&idDomain=2. Last accessed 12/04/2012.

European Foundation for the Improvement of Working and Living Conditions. (2003). Increase in violence at work in the health care sector. Available from http://www.eurofound.eu.int/ewco/2003/12/FI0312NU02.htm. Last accessed 08/25/11.

European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions. (2011). Employment and industrial relations in the health care sector. Available from http://www.eurofound.europa.eu/docs/eiro/tn1008022s/tn1008022s.pdf.

Fischer, S. & Gelb, A. (1991). Issues in Socialist economy reform. Journal of Economic Perspectives, 5(Fall), 91–105.

Foster, J. (2005). From simplistic to complex systems in economics. Cambridge Journal of Economics, 29, 873–892.

Forster, A.J., Clark, H.D., Menard, A., Dupuis, N., Chernish, R., Chandok, N., Khan, A., & Van Walraven, C. (2004). Adverse events among medical patients after discharge from hospital. Canadian Medical Association Journal, 170, 345–349.

Granick, D. (1975). Enterprise Guidance in Eastern Europe: A Comparison of Four Socialist Economies. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press.

Gorenak, V. (2006). Policing in Central and Eastern Europe: comparing firsthand knowledge with experience from the West. Available from https://www.ncjrs.gov/policing/org229.htm.

Grigorută, M.V. (2006). Change in Romanian organizations: a management culture approach. Journal of Organizational Change Management, 19, 747–752.

Hofstede, G. (1985). The interaction between national and organizational value systems. Journal of Management Studies, 22(4), 347–357.

Hofstede, G. (2001). Culture’s Consequences: Comparing Values, Behaviors, Institutions and Organizations across Nations, 2nd edition. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage.

Humphreys, M. & Brown, A.D. (2002). Dress and identity: a Turkish case study. Journal of Management Studies, 39(7), 927–952.

Iederan, O.C., Curşeu, P.L., Vermeulen, P.A.M., & Geurts, J.L.A. (2011). Cognitive representations of institutional change: Similarities and dissimilarities in the cognitive schema of entrepreneurs. Journal of Organizational Change Management, 24, 9–28.

Ilieva, S. (1999). Work attitudes in transition: some implications for management of organizational change in Bulgaria. Journal of East European Management Studies, 4, 279–291.

Institute of Medicine. (1999). To Err Is Human: Building a Safer Health System. Washington, DC: National Academy Press.

Institute of Medicine. (2001). Crossing the Quality Chasm: A New Health System for the 21st Century. Washington, DC: National Academy Press.

Joiner, T.A. (2001). The influence of national culture and organizational culture alignment on job stress and performance: evidence from Greece. Journal of Managerial Psychology, 16, 229–242.

Judgea, W.Q. & Elenkov, D. (2005). Organizational capacity for change and environmental performance: an empirical assessment of Bulgarian firms. Journal of Business Research, 58, 893–901.

Karasek, R.A. (1979). Job demands, job decision latitude, and mental stain: implications for job redesign. Administrative Science Quarterly, 24, 285–308.

Katz, D. & Kahn, R. 1966. The Social Psychology of Organizations. New York: John Wiley & Sons.

King, L. (2001). Strategic restructuring: making capitalism in post-Communist Eastern Europe. In D. Dennison, editor. Managing Organizational Change in Transition Economies. Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates. pp. 125–148.

Kotzeva, T. (1995). “Jenskiat opit”: hronikata na edna otminala ilusia. [“Women’s experiences”: chronicle of a passed illusion]. Sociologicheski Problemi, 4, 65–77.

Kotzeva, T. & Todorova, I. (1994). Bulgarkata—tradicionni predstavi i promenqshti se realnosti. [Bulgarian Woman—Traditional Concepts and Changing Realities]. Krakra, Pernik.

Lewin, K. (1951). Field Theory in Social Science. New York: Harper & Row.

Llaci, S., Kasimati, M., & Kume, V. (2003). What about the leader in Albanian reality? Journal for East European Management Studies, 8, 361–368.

Manolova, T. & Yan, A. (2002). Institutional constraints and entrepreneurial responses in a transforming economy: the case of Bulgaria. International Small Business Journal, 20, 163–172.

Mason, R. (2007). The external environment’s effect on management and strategy: a complexity theory approach. Management Decision, 45(1), 10–28.

Mastilica, M. & Chen, M.-S. (1998). Health care reform in Croatia: the consumers’ perspective. Croatian Medical Journal, 39, 256–266.

McCray, L.W., Cronholm, P.F., Bogner, H.R., Gallo, J.J., & Neill, R.A. (2008). Resident physician burnout: is there hope? Family Medicine, 40, 626–632.

McKenzie, C. & James, K. (2004). Aesthetic as an aid to understanding complex systems and decision judgement in operating complex systems. Emergence: Complexity & Organizations, Special Double Issue, 6(1–2), 32–39.

Meyer, A.D., Goes, J.B., & Brooks, G.R. (1993). Organizations reacting to hyperturbulence. In G.P. Huber and W.H. Glick, editors. Organizational Change and Redesign. New York, NY: Oxford University Press. pp. 66–111.

Michie, S. & Williams, S. (2003). Reducing work related psychological ill health and sickness absence: a systematic literature review. Occupational and Environmental Medicine, 60, 3–9.

Mintzberg, H. (1997). Toward healthier hospitals. Health Care Management Review, 22, 9–18.

Montgomery, A.J., Panagopoulou, E., Kehoe, I., & Valkanos, E. (2011). Connecting organisational culture and quality of care in the hospital: is job burnout the missing link? Journal of Health Organisation and Management, 25, 108–123.

Newman, K.L. (1998). Radical versus incremental change: the role of capabilities, competition, and leaders. Working Paper No. 200. Davidson Institute Research Workshop on Organizational Change in Transition Economies.

Newman, K.L. (2000). Organizational transformation during institutional upheaval. Academy of Management Review, 25, 602–619.

North, D.C. (1990). Institutions, Institutional Change and Economic Performance. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press.

Oreg, S., Vakola, M., & Armenakis, A (2011). Change recipients’ reactions to organizational change: a 60-year review of quantitative studies. The Journal of Applied Behavioral Science. doi:10.1177/0021886310396550.

Pasa, S.F., Kabasakal, H., & Bodur, M. (2001). Society, organizations, and leadership in Turkey. Applied Psychology: An International Review, 50, 559–589.

Pearce, J.L. & Branyiczki, I. (1993). Revolutionizing bureaucracies: managing change in Hungarian state owned enterprises. Journal of Organizational Change Management, 6, 53–64.

Perkov, D., Petar, S., & Rajsman, M. (2008). Challenges of change management in Croatian enterprises. Paper presented at ICES 2008 Sarajevo.

Pisljar, T., Van der Lippe, T., & Dulk, D.L. (2011) Health among hospital employees in Europe: a cross-national study of the impact of work stress and work control. Social Science & Medicine, 72(6), 899–906.

Prochaska, J.O., Norcross, J.C., & DiClemente, C.C. (1994). Changing for good: the revolutionary program that explains the six stages of change and teaches you how to free yourself from bad habits. New York: W. Morrow.

Prochaska, J.M., Prochaska, J.O., & Levesque, D.A. (2001). A transtheoretical approach to changing organisations. Administration and Policy in Mental Health, 28, 247–261.

Radice, H. (1995). Organizing markets in Central and Eastern Europe: competition, governance and the role of foreign capital. In E. Dittrich, G. Schmidt, & R. Whitley, editors. Industrial Transformation in Europe. London: Sage. pp. 109–134.

Reardon, J., Miller, C., Vida, I., & Kim, I. (2005). The effects of ethnocentrism and economic development on the formation of brand and ad attitudes in transitional economies. European Journal of Marketing, 39, 737–754.

Rivera-Rodriguez, A.J. & Karsh, B.T. (2010). Interruptions and distractions in healthcare: review and reappraisal. In A.J. Rivera-Rodriguez & B.-T. Karsh Quality and Safety in Health Care, 19, 304–312.

Roe, R.A., Zinovieva, I.L., Dienes, E., & Ten Horn, L.A. (2001). Firm ownership and work motivation in Bulgaria and Hungary: an empirical study of the transition in the mid-1990’s. In D. Denison, editor. Organizational Change in Transition Economies. London: Sage. pp. 511–537.

Rorty, R. (1989). Contingency, Irony, and Solidarity. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press.

Sargut, A.S. (2001). Kültürlerarast farklılaşma ve yönetim. [Cross-cultural Differentiation and Management]. Ankara, Turkey: Imge Kitabevi.

Savic, B.S. & Pagon, M. (2008). Relationship between nurses and physicians in terms of organizational culture: who is responsible for subordination of nurses? Croatian Medical Journal, 49(3), 334–343.

Savic, B.S., Pagon, M., & Robida, A. (2007). Predictors of the level of personal involvement in an organization: a study of Slovene hospitals. Health Care Management Review, 32(3), 271–283.

Schein, E.H. (1996). Kurt Lewin’s change theory in the field and in the classroom: notes toward a model of managed learning. Systems Practice, 9(1), 27–47.

Seren, S. & Baykal, U. (2007). Relationships between change and organizational culture in hospitals. Journal of Nursing Scholarship, 39(2), 191–197.

Sevdalis, N., Forrest, D., Undre, S., Darzi, A., & Vincent, C.A. (2008). Annoyances, disruptions, and interruptions in surgery: the Disruptions in Surgery Index (Disi). World Journal of Surgery, 32, 1643–1650.

Sherif, K. (2006). An adaptive strategy for managing knowledge in organizations. Journal of Knowledge Management, 10(4), 72–80.

Sinanaj, S. & Dollani, P. (2010). Challenges of organizational change in the case of Albanian exporting companies. Perspectives of Innovations, Economics & Business, 5, 27–29.

Sitkin, S.B., Sutcliffe, K.M., & Weick, K.E. (1998). Organizational learning. In R. Dorf, editor. The Technology Management Handbook. Boca Raton, FL: CRC Press.

Soulsby, A. & Clark, E. (1996). The emergence of post-communist management in the Czech Republic. Organization Studies, 17, 227–247.

Soulsby, A. & Clark, E. (2007). Organization theory and the post-socialist transformation: contributions to organizational knowledge. Human Relations, 60, 1419–1442.

Spataro, S.E. (2005). Diversity in context: how organisational culture shapes reactions to workers with disabilities and others who are demographically different. Behavioural Sciences and the Law, 23, 21–38.

Special Commission of Inquiry into Campbelltown and Camden Hospitals. (2004). Final report, 30 July. Available from http://www.lawlink.nsw.gov.au/special_commission. Last accessed 02/13/09.

Stark, D. (1996). Recombinant property in East European capitalism. American Journal of Sociology, 101, 993–1027.

Sullivan, T. (2004). The viability of using various system theories to describe organizational change. Journal of Educational Administration, 42(1), 43–54.

Szócska, M. (2004). Survey on the most frequent and most important managerial failures during organisational change and causes of organisational resistance towards change, 2000–2004. Budapest: Semmelweis University Health Services Management Training Centre.

Szócska, M.K., Réthelyi, J.M., & Normand, C. (2005): Managing healthcare reform in Hungary: challenges and opportunities. British Medical Journal, 331, 231–233.

Tomprou, M., Nikolaou, I., & Vakola, M. (2012). Experiencing organizational change in Greece: the framework of psychological contract. The International Journal of Human Resource Management, 23, 385–405.

Trompenaars, F. & Hampden-Turner, C. (1998). Riding the waves of culture: understanding cultural diversity in global business. New York: McGraw-Hill.

Tsoukas, H. & Chia, R. (2002). On organizational becoming: rethinking organizational change. Organizational Science, 13, 567–582.

Türköz, Y. (2004). Relationships between the participation of a private hospital’s employees in quality studies and their attitudes towards work and institution. Available from http://www.merih.net/m1/wyturk04.htm. Last accessed 08/25/11.

United Nations Statistics Division. Standard country or area codes for statistical use. Available from http://unstats.un.org/unsd/methods/m49/m49.htm. Last accessed 08/25/11.

Van de Ven, A.H., & Poole, M.S. (1995). Explaining development and change in organizations. The Academy of Management Review, 20, 510–540.

Vakola, M., Tsaousis, I., & Nikolaou, I. (2004). The role of emotional intelligence and personality variables on attitudes toward organisational change. Journal of Managerial Psychology, 19, 88–110.

Von Bertalanffy, L. (1975). Perspectives on General Systems Theory. Scientific-Philosophical Studies, E. Taschdjian (eds.), New York: George Braziller.

Warner, M. (1990). Management versus self-management in Yugoslavia. Journal of General Management, 16, 20–38.

Weaver, W.G. (1997). Dewey of Foucault? Organisation and administration as edification and as violence. Organization, 4, 31–48.

Weick, K.E. & Quinn, R.E. (1999). Organizational change and development. Annual Review of Psychology, 50, 361–386.

World Factbook. (2011). Albania. Available from https://www.cia.gov/library/publications/the-world-factbook/geos/al.html#.

Xia, J., Boal, K., & Delios, A. (2009). When experience meets national institutional environmental change: foreign entry attempts of US firms in the Central and Eastern European region. Strategic Management Journal, 30: 1286–1309.





Part III


Organizational Development





19


A Critical Review of Organization Development


Bernard Burnes





19.1 Introduction


Organization development is the name given to the emerging applied behavioral science ­discipline that seeks to improve organizations through planned, systematic, long-range efforts focused on the organization’s culture and its human and social processes. The goals of organization development are to make the organization more effective, more viable, and better able to achieve both the goals of the organization as an entity and the goals of the individuals within the organization (French & Bell, 1973, p. xiv).



Organization development is a systemwide application and transfer of behavioral science knowledge to the planned development, improvement, and reinforcement of the strategies, structures, and processes that lead to organization effectiveness (Cummings & Worley, 2005, p. 1).

This chapter undertakes a critical review of OD by chronicling the major stages, disjunctures, and controversies in its history. Though there has been a tendency in recent years to write of “classical OD” and “new OD” (Marshak & Grant, 2008; Oswick, 2009), this tends to obscure its continuously-evolving nature. Throughout its history, OD has been driven by the twin forces of academic rigor and practical relevance. There has been much debate in recent years concerning the need to achieve both rigor and relevance in organizational theory and practice (Bartunek, 2007; Polzer et al., 2009). However, it was the founding father of OD, Kurt Lewin (1943/1944, p. 169), who first made the case for this in his famous dictum, “There is nothing so practical as a good theory,” which presaged the current debate by 5 decades (Gulati, 2007). As new theories, perspectives, and organizational needs have emerged, and as OD has sought to respond to these, sometimes its theoretical wing has been in the ascendancy, and sometimes its practitioner wing has come to the fore. Though this clash of rigor and relevance has made Lewin’s dictum difficult to achieve, it has provided the driving force that has propelled OD through successive periods of change.

Though the various manifestations of OD produced by this clash do not always fit into neatly-packaged time frames, a chronological perspective makes it easier to understand its development and allows it to be seen as part of a wider context. This chapter begins with the origins of OD in the 1940s and 1950s, and examines the contribution of Kurt Lewin and the growth of T-groups. In the 1960s, driven by the popularity of T-groups, OD expanded rapidly and established itself as the major approach to change in the USA; ­however, by the end of this period OD found itself under attack, and enthusiasm for T-groups began to decline. Though OD continued to expand in the 1970s and 1980s, the criticisms of it increased: in the 1970s, it was criticized for putting individual needs before organization priorities, and in the 1980s, an era of rapid organizational transformation, for being too slow, too incremental, and too participative. In response to this, in the 1990s and 2000s, there was a great deal of soul-searching in the OD community, which led to an intellectual renaissance. This created the potential for OD to reunite its academic and practitioner wings and rebuff its critics. The chapter closes by arguing that OD is the ­dominant and most widely-applicable approach to organizational change, but that there are significant issues which it must address if it is to achieve both rigor and relevance.





19.2 The 1940s and 1950s—Kurt Lewin, NTL,and the Origins of OD


It is not entirely clear where the name “organization development” came from. According to Ron Lippitt, the term was coined, independently but simultaneously, in 1959 by two different teams of National Training Laboratories Institute (NTL) members that were consulting in two different organizations: Herb Shepard and Robert Blake at Esso’s Bayway Refinery and Richard Beckhard and Douglas McGregor at General Mills. Richard Beckhard offers one of several explanations:

… we wanted to put a label on the program at General Mills … We clearly didn’t want to call it management development because it was total organization-wide, nor was it human ­relations training although there was a component of that in it. We didn’t want to call it ­organization improvement because that’s a static term, so we labeled the program “Organization Development,” meaning a system-wide change effort (French, 1982, p. 268).

Therefore, though OD is sometimes characterized as only addressing small-group problems in organizations (Dawson, 1994; Hatch, 1997; Kanter et al., 1992), from the outset it was conceived of as a dynamic and organization-wide approach to change.

Though there is some fuzziness about the origins of the name, there seems to be ­general agreement that the original core components of OD were: T-groups and the creation of the NTL; action research; and participative management (Cummings & ­Worley, 2001; French, 1982; French & Bell, 1999; Harrison, 1995). There is also general agreement that all of these have strong connections with the work of Kurt Lewin (Benne, 1976; Burnes, 2007; Dent, 2002; Freedman, 1999). As Schein (1988) stated:

There is little question that the intellectual father of contemporary theories of applied behavioral science, action research and planned change is Kurt Lewin. His seminal work … launched a whole generation of research in group dynamics and the implementation of change programs (p. 238).

Any critical review of OD must not only begin with Lewin’s contribution, but must also recognize that his work is the yardstick against which later forms of OD are measured. This is because Lewin provided both the core tools and approaches of OD, and its ­rationale and values (Bargal & Barr, 1992; Conner, 1977; Gold, 1999; Marrow, 1969). Lewin’s three major contributions to OD were:

Planned change, comprising four interrelated elements: field theory, group dynamics, action research, and the three-step model of change (Burnes, 2004b, 2007).

Showing how psychological theories and techniques developed and used in laboratory experiments to study group behavior could be applied to studying and changing group behavior in the real world (Dent, 2002; Highhouse, 2007).

A set of values based on openness and participation. Lewin believed that only through the spread of democratic values and participation throughout society could social conflict be effectively tackled, whether it took the form of war, racism, religious intolerance, or industrial unrest (Lewin, 1943b, 1948; Marrow, 1969). The Lewin et al. (1939) autocracy–democracy study showed that leaders who promoted democratic participation obtained far better outcomes than autocratic leaders. Consequently, if autocratic leaders wanted to improve the performance of their followers, they first had to change their own behavior.



Between the autocracy–democracy studies in 1939 and his death in 1947, Lewin demonstrated in a wide range of real-world situations how planned change and participative management could be successfully applied (Burnes, 2007; Marrow, 1969). In 1945, Lewin established the Research Center for Group Dynamics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Its aim was to investigate all aspects of group behavior, especially the ­benefits of democratic participation. At the same time, he was also chief architect of the Commission on Community Interrelations (CCI). Founded and funded by the American Jewish Congress, its aim was the eradication of discrimination against all minority groups. In 1946, Lewin was asked by the Connecticut Interracial Commission to organize a training workshop for community leaders to enable them to deal more effectively with racial and religious prejudice (Marrow, 1969). Lewin saw this as an opportunity to put his democratic-humanist values into practice and also to conduct field research on group dynamics (Bradford, 1967).

The resultant workshop, which took place in New Britain, Connecticut, has become famous in the annals of behavioral science and can claim to have laid the foundations for OD (Burnes, 2007; Highhouse, 2007; Rogers, 1970). It was led by Kurt Lewin, Kenneth Benne, Leland Bradford, and Ronald Lippitt (French, 1982). Benne (1976, p. 28) described it as “a project in cooperative action research” that was based on Lewin’s previous research. What emerged from New Britain was both an approach to change—­T-groups—and an organization for promoting that approach—the NTL (Freedman, 1999). The creation of T-groups, where the “T” stands for “training,” has been described as one of the most important, but also the most contentious, social inventions of the 20th century (Back, 1972; Campbell & Dunnette, 1968; Harrison, 1995; Highhouse, 2002; ­Kaplan, 1986).

The original T-groups were unstructured, agendaless groups of strangers who, working with a trained facilitator, would learn from their own interactions and the evolving dynamics of the group (French, 1982). The original idea was to use such groups to explore the feelings and attitudes of the participants in order that they could understand and reflect on their behavior in the “here and now” and so improve their interpersonal skills in order to bring about change in their “back-home” situations (Bradford et al., 1964). T-groups emerged from the New Britain workshop when the group members, almost ­accidentally, started to provide feedback to each other on their attitudes and behaviors (Benne, 1964; French & Bell, 1990). This evolved into a method by which individuals could gain personal insight into themselves and how their behavior impacted on others (French, 1982). In essence, this was an extension of Lewin’s earlier work which showed that leaders needed to change their behavior before they could change other people’s. In passing, we can also note that it shows some remarkable similarities with the modern concept of emotional intelligence (Sosik & Megerian, 1999).

The T-group approach is often referred to as “sensitivity training,” because it sensitizes the participants to their own behavior. Also, because the approach originally brought together groups of strangers in a controlled environment outside their workplaces and communities, it is referred to as “laboratory training” (Cooke, 2011; Highhouse, 2007), hence the NTL’s name. After Lewin’s death, the NTL was founded and led by Benne, Bradford, and Lippitt, the surviving leaders of the New Britain workshop, and it was originally funded by the Office of Naval Research and the National Education Association (Cummings & Huse, 1989; French, 1982).

Highhouse (2002) maintains that the entire field of OD was founded and built by T-group trainers. However, this ignores the groundwork done before the development of T-groups by Lewin and his associates (Burnes, 2007; Cooke, 2011; Freedman, 1999). It also ignores the continuing work on action research and participative management undertaken at this time by the Research Center for Group Dynamics and the CCI, which were staffed by Lewin’s collaborators and students (Cartwright & Zander, 1953; ­Friedlander, 1976; Marrow, 1969).

Nevertheless, in the late 1940s and the 1950s it was the zealot-like commitment to the promotion of T-groups which led to the creation of the OD movement, and certainly most of those who became leading figures in the movement were involved in the development of T-groups (Freedman, 1999; French, 1982; Harrison, 1995; Highhouse, 2002, 2007; Kleiner, 1996). It has to be recognized that for most of this period, OD had been more a debate amongst academics—an “intellectual crusade”—than a business from which people might make a living (Greiner & Cummings, 2004). When the research grants ran out, the NTL began to move into executive education in order to fund itself and the nature of T-groups and the NTL began to change, with the generation and free exchange of ideas giving way to a more business-oriented mindset (Dent, 2002; ­Highhouse, 2002).





19.3 The 1960s—OD Comes to Maturity


Such was the drive of the T-group pioneers that by the early 1960s, OD was emerging as a major approach to organizational change in the USA and was influencing theory and practice elsewhere in the world (Beckhard, 1969; French & Bell, 1973). T-groups were spreading like wildfire, and the other two core components of OD, action research and participative management, were gaining much support (Cummings & Worley, 2001; French, 1982; Highhouse, 2002).

OD was taken up by major Fortune 500 companies, including Esso, Dow Chemicals, Union Carbide, and Proctor & Gamble, who wanted to change the style of their managers and renew their organizations (Bradford & Burke, 2004; Greiner & Cummings, 2004). In 1964, the OD Network was founded by a small group of enthusiasts, and within a decade it had 3000 members; in 1968, the American Society of Training and Development established an OD Division, and in 1971 the Academy of Management ­created a Division of Organization Development and Change (Bradford & Burke, 2004; Cummings & Worley, 2001).

The dramatic growth of OD in the 1960s has to be seen in the light of the major social upheavals in the USA and around the world. The rise of the antiauthoritarian counterculture, especially the civil-rights movement and the flower-power/peace movement, and the emergence of new-age religion all led to a questioning of the established order and established ways of doing things (Isserman & Kazin, 2007; Lattin, 2011). This was as true for organizational life as for other aspects of society. New, heretical ideas were abroad and their promoters:

… saw a truth that ran against … prevailing attitudes. They saw how, despite the power of corporate practice, something desperately desirable had been lost in everyday corporate life: a sense of the value of human relationships and community. They saw how, without that human spirit, corporations could not perform (Kleiner, 1966, p. X).

Consequently, OD saw itself not as a set of tools and techniques to make organizations more efficient, nor any longer as just a small cult evangelizing the merits of T-groups and driven by intellectuals from leading American universities. Instead it was broadening out “into a popular ‘movement’ intended to ‘democratize’ life in organizations” (Greiner & Cummings, 2004, p. 375). In their work, OD practitioners were addressing fundamental questions, such as:

Does man exist for the benefit of organizations such as industry, the state, or the market? Or, do organizations exist for the benefit of man? (Zand, 2010, p. 424)

How do I help create a better society? (Porras & Bradford, 2004, p. 393)

Porras said:

I think the basic belief at that time was that OD processes could really transform people, make them psychologically healthier … Then, through the use of these improved interpersonal skills, people in the organization would develop more powerful ways to solve problems together, increase their participation, share power and decision making, get things done more effectively and efficiently, and so on (Porras & Bradford, 2004, p. 394).

An indication of the impact of OD is that while in 1960 no MBA, management, or business degree program in the USA had a required course on organizational behavior and development, by 1970 all the major degree programs had one (Dent, 2002).

In the mid-1960s, OD began to embrace quality-of-working-life initiatives and strategic change (Cummings & Worley, 2001), but it was action research, participative management, and, above all, T-groups and the NTL that were at the forefront of the growth in OD (French & Bell, 1973). In their original form, the purpose of T-groups was to allow ­people to learn about themselves and in so doing to see how their action affected others in their “back-home” situations (French, 1982; Highhouse, 2007; Marrow, 1969). ­T-groups were built on Lewin’s (1946, 1947b) work on the social psychology of groups and, as such, were not about individual therapy. However, as the demand for T-groups grew in the 1950s, many of those recruited by the NTL as trainers came from a psychotherapy background rather than a social psychology one (Benne, 1964; Freedman, 1996; ­Highhouse, 2002). As a consequence, in the 1960s T-groups became more like ­psychotherapy sessions for their participants, and began to lose touch with the aim of changing the behavior of the groups to which they belonged and for which they had responsibility (Kaplan, 1986).

As Porras observed:

… in the early ’60s, groups [T-groups, sensitivity training groups, encounter groups] were being used primarily to transform people without much concern for the setting the group participant came from. The idea was to make everyone more interpersonally competent so that they could interact more effectively with each other in whatever situation they found themselves. At UCLA, they were running groups mainly for all types of people with only a relatively minor emphasis on people specifically in organizations (Porras & Bradford, 2004, p. 393).

By 1966, some 20 000 business men and women had passed through the NTL’s doors (Friendly, 1966). Such was the demand for T-groups that many T-group trainers, and even people who had only attended a few T-group sessions, began to develop their own ­products, such as in-company or “family” T-groups and Blake’s Managerial Grid (Bradford, 1974; Cummings & Huse, 1989; Dent, 2002; Harrison, 1995). This unregulated ­expansion of T-groups meant that, in many cases, therapy-like interventions were being conducted by people who had little or no training in the use of psychotherapy, and as a result T-groups began to be criticized for damaging the careers and psychological health of participants (Harrison, 1995; Highhouse, 2002; Kaplan, 1986). Even when the most experienced T-group trainers were involved, some organizations proved culturally unsuited to the approach, as a well-documented exercise with the US State Department showed (Argyris, 1967; Freedman, 1999; Marrow, 1974). Another telling criticism was that whatever individuals might learn about themselves in T-groups, it had very little positive effect on their performance at work (Campbell & Dunnette, 1968; Dunnette & Campbell, 1970; Kleiner, 1996; Odiorne, 1963). Consequently, by the end of the 1960s the influence of the NTL and the use of T-groups dramatically declined (Highhouse, 2002; Joure et al., 1971; Kleiner, 1996).

The use of action research and participative management also grew considerably in the 1960s, and as the influence of T-groups waned, these took a more dominant role in the OD movement (Cummings & Huse, 1989; French, 1982; French & Bell, 1999). Though there are a number of variants of action research (Cooke, 2011; Cummings & Worley, 2001; French & Bell, 1999; McArdle & Reason, 2008), it is Lewin’s (1946) participative, or cooperative, action-research model that is most used by OD practitioners (Chein et al., 1948; French, 1982). Though mostly used in the 1940s to tackle societal problems, such as religious and racial prejudice, Lewin also used it extensively in the Harwood Manufacturing Corporation, where it continued to be used for many years after his death (Burnes, 2007; Marrow, 1967, 1969). As Marrow 1972, the company’s president, commented, Harwood was the first real test of Lewin’s action-research approach to change:

We agreed that the emphasis was to be on action, but action as a function of research. Each step taken was to be studied. Continuous evaluation of all steps would be made as they ­followed one another. The rule would be: No research without action, no action without research (p. 90).

By the 1960s, action research was seen as:

… an emergent inquiry process in which applied behavioral science knowledge is integrated with existing organizational knowledge and applied to solve real organizational problems. It is simultaneously concerned with bringing about change in organizations, in developing self-help competencies in organizational members and in adding to scientific knowledge. Finally it is an evolving process that is undertaken in a spirit of collaboration and co-inquiry (Shani & Pasmore, 1985, p. 439).

It was based on the assumption that each organization is unique and that a change process has to be designed with that uniqueness in mind and adapted in the light of ongoing ­experience and emergent learning (Coghlan, 2011). It incorporated Lewin’s (1947b) belief that for change to be effective, it must take place at the group level and must be a participative and collaborative process of discussion, debate, and experiment which involves all of those concerned (Allport, 1948; Bargal et al., 1992; French & Bell, 1990). Lewin maintained that the understanding and learning produced by this process was more important for the individuals and groups concerned than any resulting change as such (Lewin, 1946). Though action research is often characterized as a diagnostic process (French & Bell, 1999), for Lewin it was much more about creating a dialogue amongst the participants that would allow them to reach a common understanding of the context in which their behaviors took place (Burnes, 2004b).

Though OD practitioners have developed a number of variants of action research, they all tend to stem from Lewin’s three-step model (unfreezing, moving, refreezing) (Bullock & Batten, 1985; Clark, 1972; Coghlan, 2011; Cummings & Huse, 1989; Cunningham, 1993; Foster, 1972; Frohman et al., 1976; Lippitt et al., 1958). Lewin laid particular stress on the need to refreeze the new behavior—make it self-sustaining (Lewin, 1947a). Such has been the impact of the three-step model that:

Scratch any account of creating and managing change and the idea that change is a three-stage process which necessarily begins with a process of unfreezing will not be far below the surface. Indeed, it has been said that the whole theory of change is reducible to this one idea of Kurt Lewin’s … (Hendry, 1996, p. 624).

The third core component of OD in the 1960s was participative management, or “group dynamics” as it was sometimes called (Bennis et al., 1969; Greiner & Cummings, 2004; Marrow, 1969). Even today, the concept that groups of workers should have a role in decision-making is a controversial one, yet it underpinned all aspects of OD from its outset (Cummings & Worley, 2001; Huczynski & Buchanan, 2001; Marrow, 1969, 1972b). Modern concepts of participative management began with the publication of Lewin’s study on the impact of different leadership styles on children’s behavior, which gave credibility to the concept (Burnes, 2011b; Lewin et al., 1939; Zimmerman, 1978). Lewin then went on to show that participative management could be effective in a wide range of social and organizational settings, and was the most effective way of managing groups and changing group behavior (Burnes, 2007; Lewin, 1943a, 1943b). The benefits claimed for participative management are that it leads to better decision-making, increases group cooperation, performance, and commitment, and reduces resistance to change (Bennis et al., 1969; Cartwright & Zander, 1953; Marrow et al., 1967).

Participative-management interventions grew rapidly in the 1950s and 1960s (French & Bell, 1999). Studies showed that most employees welcomed the opportunity to participate in decision-making, and that such initiatives led to higher productivity and more satisfied workers (Cartwright, 1951; Cartwright & Zander, 1953; Likert, 1967; Mosely, 1987; Seashore & Bower, 1970). The philosophy of participative management led to the development of tools and systems for analyzing and changing management styles. The main ones were as follows:

(1) Rensis Likert’s “Systems 1, 2, 3 and 4” with 1 being based on extreme authoritarian ­principles and 4 on the greatest degree of participation; (2) Robert Blake’s “Managerial Grid Scale,” 9 : 9 to 9 : 1, with 9 : 9 corresponding to equally strong concern for production and people and 9 : 1 a concern for production only; (3) Douglas McGregor’s “Theory X” for the authoritarian approach and “Theory Y” for the participative approach (Marrow, 1967, p. 31).



One of the most wide-ranging participative-management interventions in the 1960s was carried out by the Harwood Manufacturing Corporation (Marrow et al., 1967). Some 20 years after its first encounter with Lewin and participative management, Harwood was still committed to this approach. When it took over another company, it embarked on an extensive and successful 3-year OD effort to inculcate the Harwood culture and approach to management into the newly-acquired organization.

By the end of the 1960s, the OD movement had been transformed in terms of the ­number of practitioners and the range of products. Though the popularity of T-groups was in decline, the action research–participative management approaches and their underlying values appeared to be growing in strength, and OD dominated the field of organizational change and development (Dunphy, 2000; French & Bell, 1973; Greiner, 1967; Krell, 1981). Though small-scale, local OD initiatives were still the norm, a number of organization-wide OD interventions were emerging (French & Bell, 1999). These ­strategic-change initiatives were recognition that smaller-scale interventions were often hindered by ­divisional and company-wide structures and large-scale production and process tech­nologies (Burnes, 2009a). OD was also growing internationally. While the USA was the ­powerhouse for OD, similar developments were happening elsewhere (French, 1982): the UK’s Tavistock Institute’s sociotechnical-systems approach complemented the growing interest in the USA in job redesign and quality of working life (Davis, 1979; Guest, 1957; Herzberg, 1968; Trist et al., 1963), while the workplace-democracy movement in ­Scandinavia paralleled and informed the participative-management dimension of US OD (Bradbury et al., 2008; Pasmore, 2001).





19.4 The 1970s and 1980s—Red Flags and Rivals


After the heady days of the 1960s, the next 2 decades were to prove a much less comfortable time for OD. Flower power was dead, Western companies were facing increasing competition from the Japanese, the oil price rose dramatically, and inflation and recession were rife (Freedman, 1999; Johnson & Ouchi, 1974; Morgan, 1986; Sheldrake, 1996). Companies no longer wanted to experiment with novel ideas; they wanted value-for-money products that worked. Therefore, if the growing number of practitioners were to earn a living, OD had to unleash its entrepreneurial spirit and become a much more hard-headed, results-focused, commercial activity that catered to what companies wanted (Burnes, 2009a; Dent, 2002; Greiner & Cummings, 2004; Herzberg, 1968; Krell, 1981).

This pressure for OD to change found form in Greiner’s (1972) influential article “Red Flags in Organization Development,” in which he warned that:

… disturbing symptoms of the failure of current brands of OD have been appearing frequently in research studies, in anecdotal evidence by managers, and in the literature of organizations (p. 18).

Greiner (1972) went on to say that “I wish to raise six red warning flags by questioning six trends that may be preventing the very changes being sought” (p. 19):

Flag 1—Putting the individual before the organization.

Flag 2—Putting the informal before the formal organization.

Flag 3—Putting behavior before diagnosis.

Flag 4—Putting process before task.

Flag 5—Putting experts before the manager.

Flag 6—Putting the package before the situation.



In response to the pressure for change, there was a major shift of focus, from small-group behavioral interventions to a more system-wide perspective that embraced strategy and structure, work processes, organizational effectiveness, and the needs of all organizational stakeholders (Armenakis & Bedeian, 1999; Greiner & Cummings, 2004; Pasmore & Fagans, 1992; Sashkin & Burke, 1987; Woodman, 1989). Burnes (2009a) observed that these changes were characterized by four main developments:

An open-systems perspective, building on sociotechnical-systems theory, which viewed organizations in their totality and within their environments.

A change of focus from group norms and values to organizational culture.

A shift of emphasis from group learning to organizational learning.

Increasing focus on organizational transformation rather than just group change.



These developments, however, were not without their problems and critics. By the end of the 1970s, OD had assembled a widely-used range of tried-and-tested approaches, but these still tended to focus on the group level rather than on the wider organization (Beer & Walton, 1987; Krell, 1981). Organization-wide transformational approaches were seen as crucial to maintaining OD’s relevance. However, the more ambiguous and vague they were, the less well they were developed, understood, accepted, and supported (Cummings & Worley, 1997; French & Bell, 1995; Golembiewski, 1979; Porras & Robertson, 1987; Sashkin & Burke, 1987). In addition, the more that OD focused on large-scale change interventions, the less collaborative the change process became and the less able it was to promote its core humanist and democratic values (Burnes, 2009a). The dilemma for OD was that the more it attempted to provide what its customers and critics asked for, the less it appeared to be recognizably OD (Bradford & Burke, 2004; Greiner & Cummings, 2004; Worley & Feyerhern, 2003).

At issue was a fundamental question: Is change most effective when it is driven from the bottom of an organization or from the top (Conger, 2000)? In the 1950s and 1960s, inspired by the work of Lewin and the early proponents of OD, the loudest voices were in favor of bottom-up, collaborative change. However, by the 1980s, led by writers such as Tom Peters, the loudest voices were in favor of swift and decisive top-down change, often involving unpalatable actions such as closing factories and sacking large numbers of people.

Peters has been, arguably, the most influential management consultant of the last 30 years (Collins, 2008; Huczynski, 1993). He catapulted to international fame when he ­co-authored In Search of Excellence: Lessons from America’s Best-run Companies (Peters & Waterman, 1982). At a time when Western economies were on the rocks and Japanese companies appeared to be sweeping all before them, In Search of Excellence seemed to offer a way for Western companies to regain their competitiveness (Crainer, 1995).

Peters launched an attack on corporate America, which he saw as a collection of ­outmoded and uncompetitive dinosaurs, doomed to extinction unless they transformed themselves rapidly and irreversibly (Burnes, 2009a). He argued that this could not be achieved by continuing with past OD-type approaches to managing and changing organizations (Peters, 1989, 1993; Peters & Waterman, 1982). Many others took a similar view (Handy, 1984; Kanter, 1983, 1989; Pascale & Athos, 1982)—they were not opposed to empowerment, but believed its effectiveness was limited. Their attitude towards Lewin and OD is best summed up in Kanter et al.’s (1992) trenchant comment that:

Lewin’s model was a simple one, with organizational change involving three stages; unfreezing, changing and refreezing … This quaintly linear and static conception—the organization as an ice cube—is so wildly inappropriate that it is difficult to see why it has not only survived but prospered. … Suffice it to say here, first, that organizations are never frozen, much less refrozen, but are fluid entities with many “personalities.” Second, to the extent that there are stages, they overlap and interpenetrate one another in important ways (p. 10).

Slow, incremental, and participative change was now out of fashion; change had to be fast, furious, and often brutal. Top managers came to focus less on people-oriented values and more on “the bottom line and/or the price of stock … [consequently] some executives [developed] a ‘slash and burn’ mentality” (French & Bell, 1995, p. 351).

Therefore, from the early 1980s, a powerful consensus began to build against OD in general and Lewin’s work in particular, which led to the eclipse of OD, at least in the academic world. The attack on OD did not just come from writers such as Peters; OD also found itself under fire from new perspectives on organizations such as postmodernism, social constructionism, and processualism, and from theories drawn from the natural ­sciences, especially the punctuated-equilibrium model of change and complexity theory (Brown & Eisenhardt, 1997; Burnes, 2005, 2009a; Dawson, 1994; Hatch, 1997; ­Pettigrew, 1985, 1997; Wheatley, 1992). By the end of the 1980s, these different strands had coalesced under the umbrella of “emergent change” (Wilson, 1992). From the emergent perspective:

Organizational change is not a linear process or a one-off isolated event but is a continuous, open-ended, cumulative, and unpredictable process of experimentation and adaptation aimed at matching an organization’s resources and capabilities to the opportunities, constraints, and demands of a dynamic and uncertain environment.

Change is a multilevel, cross-organization process that unfolds in an iterative and messy fashion over a period of years and comprises a series of interlocking projects.

Change is not an analytical-rational process. Instead, key change decisions evolve over time and are the outcome of political and cultural processes in organizations.



For Weick (2000), the advantages of emergent change include:

… sensitivity to local contingencies; suitability for on-line real-time experimentation, learning, and sensemaking; comprehensibility and manageability; likelihood of satisfying needs for autonomy, control, and expression; proneness to swift implementation; resistance to ­unravelling; ability to exploit existing tacit knowledge; and tightened and shortened feedback loops from results to action (p. 227).

Emergent change became the first substantial approach to change to challenge the ­dominance of OD. Indeed, by the end of the 1980s, OD seemed to be in decline and clinical psychologists appeared to have ceded the field of change to sociologists (Bunker et al., 2004; Burnes, 2009a).

In the 1970s and 1980s, OD had become practitioner-dominated and lost its close link with academia. The entrepreneurial OD practitioners developed new approaches to change which attempted to address organizations’ need for large-scale, transformational change (Bunker et al., 2004; Greiner & Cummings, 2004). However, these approaches were not as successful as OD practitioners had hoped (Greiner & Cummings, 2004), and the evidence appeared to show that they were still more comfortable with smaller-scale interventions which promoted OD’s traditional democratic-humanist values (Hurley et al., 1992). Also, the new OD interventions that had appeared in this period were not supported by the level of research and theory development needed to provide rigor, credibility, and effectiveness. This was not surprising in a practitioner-dominated field (Golembiewski, 1979; Porras & Robertson, 1987; Robertson, et al., 1993; Sashkin & Burke, 1987).





19.5 The 1990s and the 2000s—OD Lost and Found?


For OD, the 1990s and 2000s saw three apparently separate developments. The first was that for much of this period, the OD community appeared to be embroiled in a turmoil of soul-searching, debate, and dispute over the nature and future of OD (Bennis, 2000; Burke, 1997; Dunphy, 2000; Farias & Johnson, 2000; Hornstein, 2001; Marshak, 1993; Nicholl, 1998a, 1998b; Worley & Feyerherm, 2003). Certainly, many commentators were asking if OD had lost its sense of direction or even still existed (Greiner & Cummings, 2004). It was also the case that many managers considered it “an out-of-date fad” (Porras & Bradford, 2004, p. 401). In looking back over the period, Korten et al. (2010, p. 395) summarized the key issues and debates as:

What is OD and does it have a strong theoretical base?

Are the values of OD strong and appropriate?

Does OD add value to organizations?

Are OD practitioners responsive enough to organizations’ needs?

Does OD have the balance right between “soft” people concerns and “hard” economic concerns?

Should more be done to “quality-assure” OD practitioners?



OD’s crisis of confidence was starkly illustrated in 2004 with the appearance of a special issue of the Journal of Applied Behavioral Science (40(4)), which is published by the NTL and could therefore be considered the “house journal” of the OD movement. It contained articles by leading figures in the movement with titles such as “Introduction: Is OD in Crisis?” (Bradford & Burke, 2004), “Wanted: OD More Alive than Dead!” (Greiner & Cummings, 2004), and “Ideas in Currency and OD Practice: Has the Well Gone Dry?” (Bunker et al., 2004). As Bradford & Burke (2004) stated in their “Introduction”:

We would suggest that there is no agreement about what OD is. The field lacks a central, agreed-upon theory of change—or even approach to change (p. 370).

The second and more promising development was that a new generation of scholars started to take a critical and surprisingly supportive interest in the work of Kurt Lewin. The received wisdom for much of the 1980s and 1990s was that Lewin’s work was at best outdated, and at worst had always been wrong (Dawson, 1994; Hatch, 1997; Kanter et al., 1992). However, in 1992 the Journal of Social Issues (48(2)) published a special issue to mark (belatedly) the centenary of Lewin’s birth in 1890. Not only did it revisit Lewin’s work and bring it to a new generation but it also argued that it was still highly relevant to the needs of organizations and society at large. Indeed, the guest editors, in introducing the special issue, stated that “we believe that psychology as a field has moved much closer to Lewin’s worldview than it was during his lifetime” (Bargal et al., 1992, p. 4). Subsequently, both Hendry (1996) and Schein (1996) produced articles defending Lewin’s much-criticized three-step model. Elrod & Tippett (2002) found support for Lewin’s model from unexpected quarters:

Models of the change process were identified in diverse and seemingly unrelated disciplines [such as bereavement theory, personal-transition theory, creative processes, cultural revolutions, and scientific revolutions]. Examination of most of these models revealed … most ­followed Lewin’s [1947b] three-phase model of change (p. 288).

Other writers produced similarly supportive publications demonstrating the continuing relevance of Lewin’s work (Boje et al., 2011; Burnes, 2004a, 2004b, 2007, 2009b, 2011; By & Burnes, 2011; Coghlan & Jacobs, 2005). Therefore, while many in the OD community were busy questioning its purpose and values, other scholars, often from outside of the community, were rehabilitating Lewin and OD.

The third development, or rather continuing development, was that OD did not stand still—it continued to expand across the globe (Cummings & Worley, 2009; French & Bell, 1999; Mozenter, 2002; Piotrowski & Armstrong, 2005; Rees, 2011; Wirtenberg et al., 2004). Perhaps more importantly, new approaches to OD, often incorporating newer ­perspectives on the nature of organizational life, such as social contructionism and complexity theories, continued to emerge and be well received (Bushe, 2011; Freedman, 1999; ­Oswick and Marshak, 2011). As Freedman (1999) noted, process consultation, though having been around for many years, became increasingly popular in the 1990s. Process consultation does not focus so much on a particular approach to change or a set of tools but rather is about the consultant establishing an effective helping relationship with the client organization (Schein, 1999). As Schein (1988) states, it is based on the “assumption that all organizational problems are fundamentally problems involving human interactions and processes” (p. 12). Central to process consultation is the notion that learning and change are interrelated—the client has to learn about themselves and their organization before they can change it. In order to assist in this, the consultant has to establish a dialogue which allows the client to explore their situation and learn more about it. This idea of dialogue as central to the change process also links process consultation with another form of OD that began to gain attention in the 1990s—dialogic OD (Dixon, 1998; Oswick, 2009). Some proponents of dialogic OD see it as a transformational process, whereas others see it as a way in which the various parties involved in the change process can gain insights into each other’s organizational realities (Barratt et al., 1995; Bushe & Marshak, 2009; Gergen, 1999). Where its proponents see it as distinct from classical “diagnostic” OD is in its interpretative nature; it draws on the idea that reality is socially constructed and socially negotiated, and that organizations are seen as meaning-making systems (Bushe & Marshak, 2009; Oswick & Marshak, 2011). However, Wooten & White (1999) and others also argue that the philosophy of Lewinian OD, with its emphasis on democracy and fairness, fits neatly with the egalitarian nature of postmodern organizations (see Bergquist, 1993; Daft, 1998). Also, as shown earlier when discussing action research, Lewin’s (1946) view was that gaining insights and understanding was more important than gathering data and testing solutions.

It may seem strange that OD, which in the 1980s and 1990s was under attack from social-constructionist/postmodern critics (see Hatch, 1997), should itself attempt to incorporate these perspectives (Oswick, 2009). A number of leading OD scholars see social constuctionism as a way of further developing OD and providing it with a more coherent theoretical underpinning (Cummings & Worley, 2009; Marshak & Grant, 2008; Van Nistelrooij & Sminia, 2010; Worley & Feyerherm, 2003). A related area in which supporters of OD have shown an interest is that of organizational storytelling (Rhodes, 2011), which has links with both dialogic OD and social constructionism (Bryant & Wolfram Cox, 2011). Storytelling is seen as enabling the exploration of the dialogic nature of organizations, in which the ­organization is seen as a “multiplicity of discourses” which reflect different perspectives on reality (Grant et al., 1998, p. 7). It also, of course, has much common ground with ­sense-making, which has also found favor among proponents of OD (Werkman, 2010).

One of the most prominent new approaches in OD is appreciative inquiry (AI) (­Cooperrider & Srivastva, 1987). As Bushe (2011) states, AI is based on dialogic OD and social-constructionist theory. It consists of the four-D approach: Discovery, Dream, Design, and Deliver/Destiny. Bushe (2011) describes AI as one of the first post-Lewinian OD methods, but, as will be discussed later, this may be something of an exaggeration.

Another area in which OD was seemingly incorporating the work of its critics was ­complexity theory. This is an umbrella term for a number of theories, ideas, and research programs derived from scientific disciplines such as meteorology, biology, physics, ­chemistry, and mathematics. A wide range of writers and practitioners have argued that organizations, like natural systems, are complex, nonlinear systems whose members can shape their present and future behavior through spontaneous self-organizing, which is underpinned by a set of simple order-generating rules (Arndt & Bigelow, 2000; Bechtold 1997; Black 2000; Fitzgerald 2002; Lewis 1994; MacIntosh & MacLean 2001; Stacey 2003; Wheatley 1992). Complexity theory is, therefore, being seen as a way of understanding and changing organizations (Burnes, 2005). Though many of its proponents have seen the complexity perspective as incompatible with OD, proponents of the latter have come to take a different view (Olson & Eoyang, 2001; Worley & Feyerherm, 2003).

OD has gone through a period in which new approaches have been developed that claim to enable dialogue with multiple stakeholders, engage multiple realities, and address the needs of whole systems rather than just parts of them. However, a number of writers question the extent to which these are really new approaches, as opposed to a continuation, extension, or development of earlier forms of OD such as action research, sociotechnical systems, strategic change, and open-systems planning (Oswick, 2009; Worley & ­Feyerherm, 2003). Consequently, they argue that these new approaches are not necessarily incompatible with older OD theories and practices (Burnes, 2004a; Oswick, 2009; Van Nistelrooij & Sminia, 2010). The main issue which separates the two is their supposedly differing views on the nature of reality. Lewin’s work and classical OD are seen as being based on a modernist, unitary view of reality, while dialogic OD is based on the multiple-reality ­perspective of the social constructionists and postmodernists (Bushe & Marshak, 2009). However, Van Nistelrooij & Sminia (2010) paint a very different picture of Lewin and the early proponents of OD: one which sees them as more in line with a social-­constructionist view of the world. As Burnes (2009a) noted, this stems from the Gestalt psychology that underpins Lewin’s work and which argues that individuals and groups see and experience the world from their own perspectives (see Lewin, 1942; Lewin & Grabbe, 1945; Köhler, 1967; Rock & Palmer, 1990). Similar linkages can be made with storytelling approaches to change, as Boje & Rosile (2010) have shown in using Lewin’s field theory to develop their approach to storytelling. Finally, as Burnes (2004a) maintains, there are strong links between Lewin’s formulation of organizations and that of ­complexity theorists.

Taken together, the three developments discussed in this section appear to represent an intellectual renaissance in OD. If OD in the 1970s and 1980s was dominated by practitioners, the last 2 decades have seen the baton passed back to academia. This has opened up the possibility that the varying perspectives and approaches to OD can be reconciled. However, as the final section of this chapter will argue, that is only likely to happen if ­practitioners are brought back into the OD fold.





19.6 Conclusion: OD in the 21st Century—a Time for Cautious Optimism


This review has shown that since its inception in the work of Kurt Lewin, OD has grown considerably. Looking at OD today and comparing it with the past, we do not see a period when “classical” OD existed and a period now in which “new” OD holds sway. Rather, we see a continuously-evolving body of theory and practice that is capable of incorporating and developing new ideas, perspectives, and approaches and of discarding old ones as circumstances change (Dent, 2002; Oswick, 2009; Rees, 2011). This continuous evolution is driven by the twin forces of academic rigor and practical relevance. Sometimes, as in the 1950s, 1990s, and 2000s, academics appear to be in the driving seat, as they seek to develop theoretically strong and rigorous approaches to change. At other times, as in the 1970s and 1980s, it is practitioners seeking to develop approaches relevant to the needs of their clients who take the lead. Occasionally, as in the 1960s, we can see both groups vying for supremacy. This can lead the many individuals, groups, and organizations which make up the field to explore dead ends, to take paths that are not compatible with OD’s values, and to create dichotomies between theory and practice. It can and does also lead to the incorporation of new insights and knowledge and to a recombination of rigor and ­relevance (Bunker et al., 2004).

In the second decade of the 21st century, something strange seems to be happening to OD. On the one hand, it appears to be going through a process of renewal as it incorporates new ideas (Bushe & Marshak, 2009; Oswick & Marshak, 2011). On the other hand, the work of Kurt Lewin seems to be coming back into fashion (Boje et al., 2011; Burnes, 2009b; Coghlan & Jacobs, 2005; Elrod & Tippett, 2002). Though these may seem to be contrary developments, it needs to be recognized that as the impact on OD of new ideas becomes more distinct, these ideas may prove to both be compatible with and link back to some of the themes in Lewin’s work. This is especially the case with the relationship ­between Lewin’s Gestalt-based field theory and social constructionism (Van Nistelrooij & Sminia, 2010). It is also the case that the main challenger to OD, emergent change, seems to have faded and that its successors, such as complexity theory, appear to be being ­incorporated into OD (Burnes, 2011a, 2011c). Finally, the various organizational and financial scandals of the last decade have highlighted the importance of ethics and values in organizational life, which gives the original values of OD a renewed relevance (Burnes, 2009b; By & Burnes, 2011).

Does this mean we can be more optimistic about the present state and future trajectory of OD? Yes, but—and it is a big but—there are serious issues which OD needs to address.





19.6.1 Rigor and relevance


Without a strong theoretical and methodological basis, practice is likely to be flawed and suboptimal, but without practical relevance, theory has little impact (Bartunek, 2007; Polzer et al., 2009). The separation of theory and practice did not exist in the early days of OD, when the influence of Kurt Lewin—The Practical Theorist—was still strong (Bunker et al., 2004; Marrow, 1969). However, as in other areas of organizational research and practice, in OD a gap opened up between those seeking a theoretically strong and rigorous OD and those pursuing a practical and relevant OD (Gulati, 2007; Hutton & Liefooghe, 2011; Robertson et al., 1993; Sashkin & Burke, 1987). Yet, as Bunker et al. (2004) argue, there are signs that both academics and practitioners are once again seeking to work together to promote rigor and relevance, but the gap cannot be bridged by a few scholar-practitioners or practitioner-scholars, important though these are (Bartunek, 2007, 2008). What is needed is a genuine commitment by both academics and practitioners to the development of mechanisms and organizations through which both can work together to restore Lewinian rigor and relevance to OD.





19.6.2 The limits of OD


Implicit, if not explicit, in much of the literature on OD is the assumption that it is or should be applicable to all types of organization and all types of change (Cummings 2005; French & Bell, 1999). Yet in each decade of its existence, OD has attempted to offer approaches to achieving forms of organization-wide, radical, and transformational change. In successive decades, evidence has been presented which questions the efficacy of such approaches (Bartunek, 2008; Dawson, 1994; Greiner, 1972; Greiner & Cummings, 2004; Hurley et al., 1992; Kanter et al., 1992; Weick & Quinn, 1999; Worren et al., 1999). Despite some successful large-scale change initiatives (Bunker & Alban, 2006), it does appear that OD is more effective, and practitioners more comfortable, in cases of small-scale, group-based, participative change intervention (Beer & Walton, 1987; Burnes, 2009a; Greiner & Cummings, 2004; Hurley et al., 1992; Krell, 1981; Ramos & Rees, 2008). Given OD’s participative–democratic orientation, this is what one might expect. Rather than assuming that OD must have an answer for all organizational ills and thus attempting to develop such answers, it might be better to start by addressing where the limits of OD lie and what types of intervention it is not suitable for.





19.6.3 Value alignment


From its outset, OD has had a distinctive set of values which influence both practice and practitioners (Burnes, 2007; Hornstein, 2001; Hubbell, 2004; Rees, 2011; Van Eynde et al., 1992). As Rees (2011) comments, these values help us to distinguish what is and what is not OD. Without such a clear set of values, almost anything could be labeled OD, including what French & Bell (1995, p. 351) referred to as the “slash and burn” approach to change. As various typologies of value show, not all change situations or organizations share OD’s values (Beck & Cowan, 1996; Graves, 1970; Johnson, 1995; Rokeach, 1973; van Marrewijk, 2004). Yet there is much support for the view that successful change is associated with value alignment between the approach to change and those who are experiencing the change (Allaire & Firsirotu, 1984; Bouckenooghe & Devos, 2007; Burnes & Jackson, 2011; Chonko et al., 2002; Diefenbach, 2007; Mrotek, 2001; Schwartz & Davis, 1981; Walinga, 2008). Though OD has paid much attention to resistance to and readiness for change (Dent & Goldberg, 1999; Walinga, 2008), the issue of value alignment appears to have been neglected, yet it is one which may have significant implications for the ­effectiveness of OD interventions (Burnes & Jackson, 2011).





19.6.4 Big questions


The origins of OD lie in Lewin’s passionate belief that only by resolving social conflict, whether it be religious, racial, marital, or industrial, can the human condition be improved. In the 1960s, OD continued to address fundamental questions about the nature of work and society (Porras & Bradford, 2004; Zand, 2010). Since then, as the two quotes at the beginning of this chapter show, OD has narrowed its ambitions to such an extent that it is in danger of sacrificing “the goals of the individuals within the organization” (French & Bell, 1973, p. xvi) in order to “enable organizations to be effective” (Cummings, 2005, p. 25). Yet there has never been a time when the big questions were more important. The world is running out of natural resources and food, global warming is threatening to destroy the planet, and organizations in large and important sections of our economies seem to have decided that ethics, morality, and laws do not apply to them (Burnes, 2009a; Dunphy et al., 2007). Though these developments raise questions for governments and individuals, it is organizations that have perhaps the greatest ability to address them (Dunphy & Griffiths, 1998). This will involve them making significant changes to their purpose and operations; OD, with its humanistic values and wide range of tools and techniques, is ideally placed not just to aid organizations to make such changes but also to lead the movement towards a more ethical and sustainable future. However, if it is to do so, OD needs to reengage with the big questions concerning work and society.

OD has survived and grown for over 60 years, and it does not appear to be ready to go out of business anytime soon. Therefore, there are more grounds for optimism than some in the OD community appear to acknowledge. However, it is optimism tinged with caution. As this section indicates, there are serious issues which OD needs to address. If it does successfully address these issues, it may achieve the ambitions of its founders and become not just an approach to changing organizations, but a way of making the world a better place to live in.





References


Allaire, Y. & Firsirotu, M.E. (1984). Theories of organizational culture. Organization Studies, 5(3), 193–226.

Allport, G.W. (1948). Foreword. In G.W. Lewin, editor. Resolving Social Conflict. London: Harper & Row.

Argyris, C. (1967). Some causes of organizational ineffectiveness within the Department of State. Occasional Papers, Department of State. Washington, DC: US Government Printing Office.

Armenakis, A.A. & Bedeian, A.G. (1999). Organisational change: a review of theory and research in the 1990s. Journal of Management, 25(3), 293–315.

Arndt, M. & Bigelow, B. (2000). Commentary: the potential of chaos theory and complexity theory for health services management. Health Care Management Review, 25(1), 35–38.

Back, K.W. (1972). Beyond words: the story of sensitivity training and the encounter movement. New York: Russell Sage Foundation.

Bargal, D. & Bar, H. (1992). A Lewinian approach to intergroup workshops for Arab-Palestinian and Jewish youth. Journal of Social Issues, 48(2), 139–154.

Bargal, D., Gold, M., & Lewin, M. (1992). The heritage of Kurt Lewin—introduction. Journal of Social Issues, 48(2), 3–13.

Barrett, F.J., Thomas, G.F., & Hocevar, S.P. (1995). The central role of discourse in large-scale change: a social construction perspective. Journal of Applied Behavioral Science, 31(3), 352–372.

Bartunek, J. (2007). Academic-practitioner collaboration need not require joint or relevant research. Academy of Management Journal, 50(6), 1323–1333.

Bartunek, J. (2008). You’re an organization development practitioner-scholar: can you contribute to organizational theory? Organization Management Journal, 5, 6–16.

Bechtold, B.L. (1997). Chaos theory as a model for strategy development. Empowerment in Organizations, 5(4), 193–201.

Beck, D.E. & Cowan, C.C. (1996). Spiral dynamics—mastering values, leadership and change. Oxford: Blackwell.

Beckhard, R. (1969). Organization development: strategies and models. Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley.

Beer, M. & Walton, R.E. (1987). Organizational change and development. Annual Review of Psychology, 38, 339–368.

Benne, K.D. (1976). The process of re-education: an assessment of Kurt Lewin’s views. Group & Organization Management, 1(1), 26–42.

Benne, K.D. (1964). History of the T group in the laboratory setting. In L.P. Bradford, J.R. Gibb, & K.D. Benne, editors. T-group theory and laboratory method. New York, NY: John Wiley & Sons.

Bennis, W. (2000). Leadership of change. In M. Beer & N. Nohria, editors. Breaking the Code of Change. Boston, MA: Harvard Business School Press.

Bennis, W.G., Benne, K., & Chin, R. (1969). The Planning of Change. New York, NY: Holt, Rinehart & Winston.

Bergquist, W. (1993). The Postmodern Organization: Mastering the Art of Irreversible Change. San Francisco: Jossey-Bass.

Black, J.A. (2000). Fermenting change: capitalizing on the inherent change found in dynamic ­nonlinear (or complex) systems. Journal of Organizational Change Management, 13(6), 520–525.

Boje, D. & Rosile, G.A. (2010). Lewin’s action research meets Aristotle on the STORYTELLING FIELD: maybe it’s a distinctive niche for CTU. Colorado Springs, CO: Colorado Technical University.

Boje, D., Burnes, B., & Hassard, J., editors. (2011). The Routledge Companion to Organizational Change. London: Routledge.

Bouckenooghe, D. & Devos, G. (2007). Psychological change climate as a crucial catalyst of readiness for change: a dominance analysis. Gent, Belgium: Vlerick Leuven Gent Management School Working Paper Series 2007/27.

Bradbury, K., Mirvis, P., Neilsen, E., & Pasmore, W.A. (2008). Action research at work: creating the future following the path from Lewin. In P. Reason & H. Bradbury, editors. Handbook of Action Research, 2nd edition. London: Sage.

Bradford, L.P. (1967). Biography of an Institution. Journal of Applied Behavioral Science, 3(2), 127–143.

Bradford, L.P. (1974). National Training Laboratories: its history 1947–1970. Bethel, ME: NTL Institute for Applied Behavioral Science.

Bradford, D.L. & Burke, W.W. (2004). Introduction: is OD in crisis? Journal of Applied Behavioral Science, 40(4), 369–373.

Bradford, L.P., Gibb, J.R., & Benne, K.D. (1964). T-group Theory and Laboratory Method. New York: John Wiley & Sons.

Brown, S.L. & Eisenhardt, K.M. (1997). The art of continuous change: linking complexity theory and time-paced evolution in relentlessly shifting organizations. Administrative Science Ouarterly, 42, 1–34.

Bryant, M. & Wolfram Cox, J. (2011). Narrating organizational change. In D. Boje, B. Burnes, &. J Hassard, editors. The Routledge Companion to Organizational Change. London: Routledge.

Bullock, R.J. & Batten, D. (1985). It’s just a phase we’re going through: a review and synthesis of OD phase analysis. Group and Organization Studies, 10, 383–412.

Bunker, B.B., Alban, B.T., & Lewicki, R.J. (2004). Ideas in currency and OD practice: has the well gone dry? Journal of Applied Behavioral Science, 40(4), 403–422.

Bunker, B.B. & Alban, B.A. (2006). The handbook of large group methods: creating systemic change in organizations and communities. San Francisco: Jossey-Bass.

Burke, W.W. (1997) The new agenda for organization development. Organizational Dynamics, Summer, 7–20.

Burnes, B. (2004a). Kurt Lewin and complexity theories: back to the future? Journal of Change Management, 4(4), 309–325.

Burnes, B. (2004b) Kurt Lewin and the planned approach to change: a re-appraisal. Journal of Management Studies, 41(6), 977–1002.

Burnes, B. (2005). Complexity theories and organisational change. International Journal of Management Reviews, 7(2), 73–90.

Burnes, B. (2007). Kurt Lewin and the Harwood studies: the foundations of OD. Journal of Applied Behavioral Science, 43(2), 213–231.

Burnes, B. (2009a). Managing Change, 5th edition. Harlow: FT/Prentice Hall.

Burnes, B. (2009b). Reflections: ethics and organisational change—time for a return to Lewinian values. Journal of Change Management, 9(4), 359–381.

Burnes, B. (2011a). Introduction—Section 2: newer approaches to change. In D. Boje, B. Burnes, & J. Hassard, editors. The Routledge Companion to Organizational Change. London: Routledge.

Burnes, B. (2011b). Kurt Lewin and the origins of OD. In D. Boje, B. Burnes, & J. Hassard, editors. The Routledge Companion to Organizational Change. London: Routledge.

Burnes, B. (2011c). Understanding the emergent approach to change. In D. Boje, B. Burnes, & J. Hassard, editors. The Routledge Companion to Organizational Change. London: Routledge.

Burnes, B. & Jackson, P. (2011). Success and failure in organisational change: an exploration of the role of values. Journal of Change Management, 11(2), 133–162.

Bushe, G. (2011). Appreciative inquiry: theory and critique. In D. Boje, B. Burnes, & J. Hassard, editors. The Routledge Companion to Organizational Change. London: Routledge.

Bushe, G.R. & Marshak, R.J. (2009). Revisioning organization development: diagnostic and ­dialogic premises and patterns of practice. The Journal of Applied Behavioral Science, 45(3), 348–368.

By, R.T. & Burnes, B. (2011). Leadership and change: whatever happened to ethics? In D. Boje, B. Burnes, & J. Hassard, editors. The Routledge Companion to Organizational Change. London: Routledge.

Campbell, J.P. & Dunnette, M.D. (1968). Effectiveness of T-group experiences in managerial training and development. Psychological Bulletin, 70, 73–104.

Cartwright, D. (1951). Achieving change in people: some applications of group dynamics. Human Relations, 4(4), 381-392.

Cartwright, D. & Zander, A. (1953). Group Dynamics: Research and Theory. White Plains, NY: Row, Peterson and Co.

Chein, I., Cook, S.W., & Harding, J. (1948). The field of action research. American Psychologist, 3(2), 43–50.

Chonko, L.B., Jones, E., Roberts, J.A., & Dubinsky, A.J. (2002) The role of environmental turbulence, readiness for change, and salesperson learning in the success of sales force change. Journal of Personal Selling & Sales Management, 22(4), 227–245.

Clark, P.A. (1972). Action Research and Organizational Change. London: Harper & Row.

Coghlan, D. (2011). Organization development and action research: then and now. In D. Boje, B. Burnes, & J. Hassard, editors. The Routledge Companion to Organizational Change. London: Routledge.

Coghlan, D. & Jacobs, C. (2005). Kurt Lewin on re-education: foundations for action research. The Journal of Applied Behavioral Science, 41(4), 444–457.

Collins, D. (2008). Has Tom Peters lost the plot? A timely review of a celebrated management guru. Journal of Organizational Change Management, 21(3), 315–334.

Conger, J.A. (2000). Effective change begins at the top. In Beer, M., & Nohria, N., editors. Breaking the Code of Change. Boston, MA: Harvard Business School Press.

Conner, P.E. (1977). A critical enquiry into some assumptions and values characterizing OD. Academy of Management Review, 2(1), 635–644.

Cooke, B. (2011). The early Cold War politics of action research and group dynamics. In D. Boje, B. Burnes, & J. Hassard, editors. The Routledge Companion to Organizational Change. London: Routledge.

Cooperrider, D. & Srivastva, S. (1987). Appreciative inquiry in organizational life. In R. Woodman & W. Pasmore, editors. Organization Change and Development. Greenwich, CT: JAI.

Crainer, S., editor. (1995). The Financial Times Handbook of Management. London: FT Pitman.

Cummings, T.G. & Huse, E.F. (1989). Organization Development and Change, 4th edition. St Paul, MN: West.

Cummings, T.G. (2005). Organization development and change: foundations and applications. In J. Boonstra, edition. Dynamics of Organizational Change and Learning. New York: John Wiley.

Cummings, T.G. & Worley, C.G. (1997). Organization Development and Change, 6th edition. Mason, OH: South-Western College Publishing.

Cummings, T.G. & Worley, C.G. (2001). Organization Development and Change, 7th edition. Mason, OH: South-Western College Publishing.

Cummings, T.G. & Worley, C.G. (2009). Organization Development and Change, 8th edition. Mason, OH: South-Western College Publishing.

Cunningham, B.C. (1993). Action Research and Organization Development. New York: Praeger.

Daft, R.L. (1998). Organizational Theory and Design, 6th edition. Cincinnati, OH: Southwestern.

Davis, L.E. (1979). Job design: historical overview. In L.E. Davis & J.C. Taylor, editors. Design of Work. Santa Monica, CA: Goodyear.

Dawson, P. (1994). Organizational Change: A Processual Approach. London: Paul Chapman Publishing.

Dent, E.B. & Goldberg, S.G. (1999). Challenging resistance to change. Journal of Applied Behavioral Science, 35(1), 25–41.

Dent, E.B. (2002). The messy history of OB&D: how three strands came to be seen as one rope. Management Decision, 40(3), 266–280.

Diefenbach, T. (2007). The managerialistic ideology of organizational change management. Journal of Organizational Change Management, 20(1), 126–144.

Dixon, N.M. (1998). Dialogue at work: making talk developmental for people and organizations. London: Lemos and Crane.

Dunnette, M.D. & Campbell, J.P. (1970). Laboratory education: impact on people and organizations. In G. Dalton, P. Lawrence, & L. Greiner, editors. Organizational Change and Development. Homewood, IL: Richard D Irwin.

Dunphy, D. (2000). Embracing paradox: top-down versus participative management of organizational change. In Beer, M. & Nohria, N., editors. Breaking the Code of Change. Boston, MA: Harvard Business School Press.

Dunphy, D.D. & Griffiths, A. (1998). The Sustainable Corporation: Organisational Renewal in Australia. St Leonards, Australia: Allen & Unwin.

Dunphy, D., Griffiths, A., & Benn, S. (2007). Organizational Change for Corporate Sustainability, 2nd edition. London: Routledge.

Elrod, P.D. II & Tippett, D.D. (2002). The “Death Valley” of change. Journal of Organizational Change Management, 15(3), 273–291.

Farias, G. & Johnson, H. (2000). Organization development and change management: setting the record straight. Journal of Applied Behavioral Science, 36(3), 376–379.

Fitzgerald, L.A. (2002). Chaos: the lens that transcends. Journal of Organizational Change Management, 15(4), 339–358.

Foster, M. (1972). An introduction to the theory and practice of action research in work organizations. Human Relations, 25(6), 529–556.

Freedman, A. (1996) The values and legacy of the founders of NTL: an Interview with Ken Benne. Journal of Applied Behavioral Science, 32(3), 332–334.

Freedman, A. (1999). The history of organization development and the NTL Institute: what we have learned, forgotten and rewritten. The Psychologist-Manager Journal, 3(2), 125–141.

French, W.L. (1982). The emergence and early history of organization development: with reference to influences on and interaction among some of the key actors. Group & Organization Studies, 7(3), 261–278.

French, W.L. & Bell, C.H. (1973) Organization Development. Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice-Hall.

French, W.L. & Bell, C.H. (1990). Organization Development, 4th edition. Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice-Hall.

French, W.L. & Bell, C.H. (1995). Organization Development, 5th edition. Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice-Hall.

French, W.L. & Bell, C.H. (1999). Organization Development, 6th edition. Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice-Hall.

Friedlander, F. (1976). OD reaches adolescence: an exploration of its underlying values. Journal of Applied Behavioral Science, 12(1), 7–21.

Friendly, A. (1966). Where bosses let their hair down. The Washington Post, 27 November.

Frohman, M.A., Sashkin, M., & Kavanagh, M.J. (1976). Action-research as applied to organization development. Organization and Administrative Science, 7, 129–161.

Gergen, K.J. (1999). Dialogical potentials. In K.J. Gergen, editor. An Invitation to Social Construction. London: Sage.

Gold, M., editor. (1999). The Complete Social Scientist: A Kurt Lewin Reader. Washington, DC: American Psychological Association.

Golembiewski, R.T. (1979). Approaches to Planned Change. New York: Marcel Dekker.

Grant, D., Keenoy, T., & Oswick, C. (1998). Introduction: organizational discourse: of diversity, dichotomy and multi-disciplinarity. In D. Grant, T. Keenoy, & C. Oswick, editors. Discourse + Organization. London: Sage.

Graves, C.W. (1970). Levels of existence: an open systems theory of values. Journal of Humanistic Psychology, 10(2), 131–155.

Greiner, L.E. (1967). Patterns of organization change. Harvard Business Review, May–June, 119–130.

Greiner, L.E. (1972). Red Flags in Organization Development. Business Horizons, June, 17–24.

Greiner, L.E. & Cummings, T.G. (2004). Wanted: OD more alive than dead! Journal of Applied Behavioral Science, 40(4), 374–391.

Guest, R.H. (1957). Job enlargement—revolution in job design. Personnel Administration, 20, 9–16.

Gulati, R. (2007). Tent poles, tribalism, and boundary spanning: the rigor-relevance debate in management research. Academy of Management Journal, 50(4), 775–782.

Handy, C. (1984). The Future of Work. Oxford: Blackwell.

Harrison, R. (1995). The collected papers of Roger Harrison. London: McGraw-Hill Developing Organizations Series.

Hatch, M.J. (1997). Organization theory: modern, symbolic and postmodern perspectives. Oxford: Oxford University Press.

Hendry, C. (1996). Understanding and creating whole organizational change through learning theory. Human Relations, 49(5), 621–641.

Herzberg, F. (1968). One more time: how do you motivate employees? Harvard Business Review, 46, 53–62.

Highhouse, S. (2002). A history of the T-group and its early applications in management development. Group Dynamics: Theory, Research and Practice, 6(4), 277–290.

Highhouse, S. (2007). Applications of organizational psychology: learning through failure or failure to learn? In L.L. Koppes, editor. Historical perspectives in industrial and organizational ­psychology. Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum.

Hornstein, H. (2001). Organization development and change management: don’t throw the baby out with the bath water. Journal of Applied Behavioral Science, 37(2), 223–226.

Hubbell, L. (2004). Struggling with the issue of who the client is in organization development ­interventions. Leadership and Organization Development Journal, 25(5), 399–410.

Huczynski, A.A. (1993). Management Gurus. London: Routledge.

Huczynski, A. & Buchanan, D. (2001). Organizational Behaviour, 4th edition. Harlow: FT/Prentice Hall.

Hurley, R.F., Church, A.H., Burke, W.W., & Van Eynde, D.F. (1992). Tension, change and values in OD. OD Practitioner, 29, 1–5.

Hutton, C. & Liefooghe, A. (2011). Mind the gap: revisioning organization development as pragmatic reconstruction. Journal of Applied Behavioral Science, 47(1), 76–97.

Isserman, M. & Kazin, M. (2007). America Divided: The Civil War of the 1960s, 3rd edition. Oxford: Oxford University Press.

Johnson, C.S. (1995). The Rokeach value survey: underlying structure and multidimensional scaling. Journal of Psychology, 129(5), 583–597.

Johnson, R. & Ouchi, W. (1974). Made in America (under Japanese management). Harvard Business Review, 52(5), 61–69.

Joure, S.A., Frye, R.L., Green, P.C., & Cassens, F.P. (1971). Examples of the over-use of sensitivity training. Training and Development Journal, 25, 24–26.

Kanter, R.M. (1983). The Change Masters. New York: Simon & Schuster.

Kanter, R.M. (1989). When Giants Learn to Dance: Mastering the Challenges of Strategy, Management, and Careers in the 1990s. London: Unwin.

Kanter, R.M., Stein, B.A., & Jick, T.D. (1992) The Challenge of Organizational Change. New York: Free Press.

Kaplan, R.E. (1986). Is openness passé? Human Relations, 39, 229–243.

Kleiner, A. (1996). The age of heretics: heroes, outlaws, and the forerunners of corporate change. New York: Doubleday.

Köhler, W. (1967). Gestalt psychology. Psychological Research, 31(1), XVIII-XXX.

Korten, F., De Caluwé, L., & Geurt, J. (2010). The future of organization development: a Delphi study among Dutch experts. Journal of Change Management, 10(4), 393–405.

Krell, T.C. (1981). The marketing of organization development: past, present and future. Journal of Applied Behavioral Science, 17(3), 309–323.

Lattin, D. (2011). The Harvard Psychedelic Club: How Timothy Leary, Ram Dass, Huston Smith, and Andrew Weil Killed the Fifties and Ushered in a New Age for America. New York: HarperCollins.

Lewin, K. (1942). Field theory and learning. In D. Cartwright, editor. (1952). Field Theory in Social Science: Selected Theoretical Papers by Kurt Lewin. London: Social Science Paperbacks.

Lewin, K. (1943a). Psychological ecology. In D. Cartwright, editor. (1952). Field Theory in Social Science. London: Social Science Paperbacks.

Lewin, K. (1943b). The special case of Germany. In G.W. Lewin, editor. (1948). Resolving Social Conflict. London: Harper & Row.

Lewin, K. (1943/1944). Problems of research in social psychology. In D. Cartwright, editor. (1952). Field Theory in Social Science. London: Social Science Paperbacks.

Lewin, K. (1946). Action research and minority problems. In G.W. Lewin, editor. (1948). Resolving Social Conflict. London: Harper & Row.

Lewin, K. (1947a). Frontiers in group dynamics. In D. Cartwright, editor. (1952). Field Theory in Social Science. London: Social Science Paperbacks.

Lewin, K. (1947b). Group decisions and social change. In T.M. Newcomb & E.L. Hartley, editors. Readings in Social Psychology. New York: Henry Holt.

Lewin, G.W. (1948). Preface. In G.W. Lewin, editor. Resolving Social Conflict. London: Harper & Row.

Lewin, K., Lippitt, R., & White, R. (1939). Patterns of aggressive behavior in experimentally created “social climates.” Journal of Social Psychology, 10, 271–299.

Lewin, K. & Grabbe, P. (1945). Conduct, knowledge, and acceptance of new values. In G.W. Lewin, editor. (1948). Resolving Social Conflict. London: Harper & Row.

Lewis, R. (1994). From chaos to complexity: implications for organizations. Executive Development, 7(4), 16–17.

Likert, R. (1967). The Human Organization. New York: McGraw-Hill.

Lippitt, R., Watson, J. & Westley, B. (1958). The Dynamics of Planned Change. New York: Harcourt, Brace and World.

MacIntosh, R. & MacLean, D. (1999). Conditioned emergence: a dissipative structures approach to transformation. Strategic Management Journal, 20(4), 297–316.

Marrow, A.J. (1967). The Harwood organization. In A.J. Marrow, D.G. Bowers, & S.E. Seashore, editors. Management by Participation. New York: Harper & Row.

Marrow, A.J. (1969). The Practical Theorist: The Life and Work of Kurt Lewin. New York: Teachers College Press.

Marrow, A.J. (1972a). The effects of participation on performance. In A.J. Marrow, editor. The Failure of Success. New York: Amacom.

Marrow, A.J., editor. The Failure of Success. New York: Amacom.

Marrow, A.J. (1974). Making Waves in Foggy Bottom. Washington, DC: NTL Institute.

Marrow, A.J., Bowers, D.G., & Seashore, S.E. (1967). Management by Participation. New York: Harper & Row.

Marshak, R.J. (1993). Lewin meets Confucius: a review of the OD model of change. The Journal of Applied Behavioral Science, 29(4), 393–415.

Marshak, R.J. & Grant, D. (2008). Organizational discourse and new organization development practices. British Journal of Management, 19(S7), S8–S19.

McArdle, K.L. & Reason, P. (2008). Action research and organization development. In T. Cummings, editor. Handbook of Organization Development. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage.

Morgan, G. (1986). Images of Organizations. Beverly Hills, CA: Sage.

Mosley, D. (1987). System Four revisited: some new insights. Organization Development Journal, 5(Spring), 19–24.

Mozenter, J. (2002). Recent research links: macro forces, emerging trends and OD’s expanding role. Organization Development Journal, 20(2), 48–57.

Mrotek, D.D. (2001). The drama of dysfunction: value conflict in US managed care. Human Relations, 54(2), 147–172.

Nicoll, D. (1998a). Is OD meant to be relevant? OD Practitioner, 30(2), 3–6.

Nicoll, D. (1998b). Is OD meant to be relevant? Part II. OD Practitioner, 30(3), 3–6.

Odiorne, G.S. (1963). The trouble with sensitivity training. Training Directors Journal, 17, 9–20.

Olson, E.E. & Eoyang, G.H. (2001). Facilitating Organization Change. San Francisco: Jossey-Bass.

Oswick, C. (2009). Revisioning or re-versioning? A commentary on diagnostic and dialogic forms of organization development. Journal of Applied Behavioral Science, 45(3), 369–374.

Oswick, C. & Marshak, R.J. (2011). Images of organization development: the role of metaphor in processes of change. In D. Boje, B. Burnes, & J. Hassard, editors. The Routledge Companion to Organizational Change. London: Routledge.

Pascale, R.T. & Athos, A.G. (1982). The Art of Japanese Management. Harmondsworth: Penguin.

Pasmore, W.A. (2001). Action research in the workplace: the socio-technical perspective. In P. Reason & H. Bradbury, editors. Handbook of Action Research. Sage: London.

Pasmore, W. & Fagans, M. (1992). Participation, individual development, and organizational change: a review and synthesis. Journal of Management, 18(2): 375–397.

Peters, T. (1989). Thriving on Chaos. London: Pan.

Peters, T. (1993). Liberation Management. London: Pan.

Peters, T. & Waterman, R.H. (1982). In Search of Excellence: Lessons from America’s Best-run Companies. London: Harper & Row.

Pettigrew, A.M. (1985). The Awakening Giant: Continuity and Change in ICI. Oxford: Blackwell.

Pettigrew, A.M. (1987). Context and action in the transformation of the firm. Journal of Management Studies, 24(6), 649–670.

Piotrowski, C. & Armstrong, T.R. (2005). Major research areas in organization development. Organization Development Journal, 23(4), 86–91.

Polzer, J.T., Gulati R., & Khurana R. (2009). Crossing boundaries to increase relevance in organizational research. Journal of Management Inquiry, 18, 280–286.

Porras, J.I. & Bradford, D.L. (2004). A historical view of the future of OD: an interview with Jerry Porras. Journal of Applied Behavioral Science, 40(4), 392–402.

Porras, J.I. & Robertson, P.J. (1987). Organization development theory: a typology and evaluation. In R.W. Woodman & W.A. Pasmore, editors. Research in Organizational Change and Development, vol. 1. Greenwich, CT: JAI Press.

Ramos, C.V.Q. & Rees, C.J. (2008). The current state of organization development: organization perspectives from Western Europe. Organization Development Journal, 26(4), 67–80.

Rees, C.J. (2011). Organisation development and international contexts: values, controversies and challenges. In D. Boje, B. Burnes, & J. Hassard, editors. The Routledge Companion to Organizational Change. London: Routledge.

Rhodes, C. (2011). The moral of the story: ethics, narrative, and organizational change. In D. Boje, B. Burnes, & J. Hassard, editors. The Routledge Companion to Organizational Change. London: Routledge.

Robertson, P.J., Roberts, D.R., & Porras, J.I. (1993). Dynamics of planned organizational change: assessing empirical support for a theoretical model. Academy of Management Journal, 36(3), 619–634.

Rock, I. & Palmer, S. (1990). The legacy of Gestalt psychology. Scientific America, December, 48–61.

Rogers, C.R. (1970). On Encounter Groups. New York: Harper & Row.

Rokeach, M. (1973). The Nature of Human Values. New York: Free Press.

Sashkin, M. & Burke, W.W. (1987). Organization development in the 1980s. Journal of Management, 13, 393–417.

Seashore, S.E. & Bowers, D.G. (1970). Durability of organizational change. American Psychologist, 25, 227–233.

Schein, E.H. (1988). Process Consultation—Volume 1: Its Role in Organization Development, 2nd edition. Reading, MA: Addison Wesley.

Schein, E.H. (1996). Kurt Lewin’s change theory in the field and in the classroom: notes towards a model of management learning. Systems Practice, 9(1), 27–47.

Schein, E.H. (1999). Process Consultation Revisited: Building the Helping Relationship. Reading, MA: Addison Wesley.

Schwartz, H. & Davis, S. (1981). Matching corporate culture and business strategy. Organizational Dynamics, 10, 30–48.

Shani, A.B. & Pasmore W.A. (1985). Organization inquiry: towards a new model of the action research process. In D.D. Warrick, editor. Contemporary Organization Development: Current Thinking and Applications. Glenview, IL: Scott Foresman and Company.

Sheldrake, J. (1996). Management Theory: From Taylorism to Japanization. London: International Thompson Business Press.

Sosik, J.J. & Megerian, L.E. (1999). Understanding leader emotional intelligence and performance: the role of self–other agreement in transformational leadership perceptions. Group and Organization Management, 24(3), 367–390.

Stacey, R.D. (2003). Strategic Management and Organisational Dynamics: The Challenge of Complexity. Harlow: FT/Prentice Hall.

Trist, E.L., Higgin, G.W., Murray, H., & Pollock, A.B. (1963). Organisational Choice. London: Tavistock.

Van Eynde, D.F., Church, A., Hurley, R.F., & Burke, W.W. (1992). What OD practitioners believe. Training and Development, 46(4), 41–44.

van Marrewijk, M. (2004). A values based approach to organization types: towards a coherent set of stakeholder oriented management tools. Journal of Business Ethics, 55, 147–158.

Van Nistelrooij, A. & Sminia, H. (2010). Organization development: what’s actually happening? Journal of Change Management, 10(4), 393–405.

Walinga, J. (2008). Toward a theory of change readiness: the roles of appraisal, focus, and perceived control. Journal of Applied Behavioral Science, 44(3), 315–347.

Weick, K.E. (2000) Emergent change as a universal in organisations. In M. Beer & N. Nohria, ­editors. Breaking the Code of Change. Boston, MA: Harvard Business School Press.

Weick, K.E. & Quinn, R.E. (1999). Organizational change and development. Annual Review of Psychology, 50, 361–386.

Werkman, R. (2010). Reinventing organization development: how a sensemaking perspective can enrich OD theories and interventions. Journal of Change Management, 10(4), 421–438.

Wheatley, M.J. (1992). Leadership and the New Science: Learning about Organization from an Orderly Universe. San Francisco: Berrett-Koehler.

Wilson, D.C. (1992) A Strategy of Change. London: Routledge.

Wirtenberg, J., Abrams, L., & Ott, C. (2004). Assessing the field of organization development. Journal of Applied Behavioral Science, 40(4), 465–479.

Woodman, R. (1989). Organization change and development: new arenas for inquiry and action. Journal of Management, 15, 205–228.

Wooten, K.C. & White, L.P. (1999). Linking OD’s philosophy with justice theory: postmodern implications. Journal of Organizational Change Management, 12(1), 7–20.

Worley, C.G. & Feyerherm, A.E. (2003). Reflections on the future of organisation development. Journal of Applied Behavioral Science, 39(1), 97–115.

Worren, N.A.M., Ruddle, K., & Moore, K. (1999). From organization development to change management: the emergence of a new profession. Journal of Applied Behavioral Science, 35(3), 273–285.

Zand, D.E. (2010). An OD Odyssey: in search of inward light. Journal of Applied Behavioral Science, 46(4), 424–435.

Zimmerman, K.D. (1978). Participative management: a re-examination of the classics. Academy of Management Review, 3, 896–901.





20


The Application of Systems Theory to Organizational Diagnosis


Arthur M. Freedman





20.1 Introduction


When planning for change, decision-makers determine what to change in order to achieve their selected change objectives. These decisions depend upon the application of implicit or explicit mental models of organizations as complex systems. These models describe the systemic variables that decision-makers believe account for the causes of perceived gaps between an organization’s current and desired states. Much of the time, these mental models are implicit and are composed of leaders’ local or indigenous theory. That is, the models reflect the decision-makers’ beliefs, assumptions, and opinions. Further, implicit models are not usually accessible for explicit testing for either validity or ­comprehensiveness. However, there are explicit mental models of organizational systems that are accessible and can be tested. A number of these systems models are presented in this chapter—in historical order—along with commentaries about their contributions, advantages, and ­disadvantages. The intent is to provide decision-makers with sufficient information about their organizational systems to enable them to make informed decisions about where to look to: localize indicators of problems; identify root causes and sources; specify the involved parties that might contribute to problems and will be affected by executing plans for change; determine where to intervene in order to correct or prevent problems; and clarify the probable consequences of taking action. Further, by exploring these mental models of organizational systems, leaders and consultants can make informed decisions about which model is best suited to guide their planned change efforts. They can also use some or all of these models to make their own implicit, indigenous models explicit or to challenge the comprehensiveness of their local theories. Alternatively, leaders and ­consultants may choose to select elements from various models in order to create their own, personalized model.





20.2 Readiness for Change: Dissatisfaction with the Status Quo


The impetus for any organizational change is dissatisfaction with some aspect of a system (Freedman & Jules, 2006). Such dissatisfaction might focus on and emanate from any level or any part of the system. Those who are closest to and most familiar with the symptoms or causes of the dissatisfaction are most likely to express doubts, concerns, or reservations about the current state or condition. Dissatisfaction with the status quo emerges when people become aware that prevailing conditions can and should be improved. There are three general conditions that provoke the dissatisfaction: (1) something—machinery, a system, a process—is broken or underperforms and must be repaired or replaced; (2) an opportunity for significant improvement becomes apparent—a new market for existing products or services opens up, an acquisition target becomes available, a new time-saving or quality-enhancing technology is developed—and the organization does not seem to be exploiting it; or (3) something that stimulates dissatisfaction proves to be impervious to efforts to find or create an enduring solution—performance-management systems that overemphasize the contributions of either the individual or the team; the centralization or decentralization of operational or functional microsystems—and is recognized as a dilemma or polarity (Johnson, 1996) that must be continuously monitored and managed.

Given the perceived need to change, the first step in developing a viable plan for systemic change is an organizational diagnosis. Ideally, the diagnosis should locate the multiple critical systemic variables that contribute to dysfunctional or suboptimal performance. The diagnosis should also guide the choice of interventions that are most likely to address these critical root causes, such that they result in improved organizational performance.





20.3 The Scientific Method: An Approach to Organizational Diagnosis


All leaders and their consultants selectively focus on what they believe are the critical variables that affect their organization’s performance. Their beliefs are often based on some local or indigenous mental model of how organizational systems work, rather than one that is constructed on the basis of theory and/or extensive experience. These are mental models that are, too often, implicit and therefore not easily amenable to testing for validity or comprehensiveness. Decision-makers generally use these models intuitively to collect what they believe is pertinent information from samples of organizational members. The samples are frequently limited, as they often consist of trusted executives and/or relevant subject-matter experts (SMEs), rather than cross-sectional samples of all organizational members from all hierarchical levels and microsystems. The information is then used, intuitively, to decide what is dysfunctional, what caused the dysfunction, what the change objective(s) should be, what strategy to apply to change systems, and what set of action steps should be developed to actually implement the changes. When making these decisions, leaders are likely to apply their unrecognized biases, assumptions, and beliefs, which overemphasize some variables and overlook or minimize others. Decision-makers may also assume, simplistically, that this approach will enable them to discover a single cause for their system’s challenges, rather than have to deal with the greater probability that multiple factors are causing it. This way, leaders may avoid dealing with complexity—at least in the early phases of planning and implementing systemic change—but will also generally make faulty plans and experience disappointing results.





20.3.1 Three ways of knowing and understanding organizations


The approach just described corresponds to what Larry Starr (2012), Director, Center for Organizational Dynamics, University of Pennsylvania, believes is the first of three interacting frames for knowing and understanding organizational systems. Organizational leaders, their consultants, and the executive management team (or the leader’s “kitchen cabinet”) generate hypotheses about the nature and probable causes of evident sources of dissatisfaction. Discussions are held with the senior managers of the microsystems that are most closely involved with the apparent problem. The resulting personal narratives that correspond most closely to the original hypotheses are given considerably more weight than information that does not seem to fit. Decisions about goals, strategies, and plans are based on the refined (or reduced) results of the discussions. Starr (2012) calls this a heuristic and personal narrative approach for problem-solving that produces a recommended solution. He believes that this approach is based on the personal experiences of selected respondents and “is powerful and useful, but it is limited because of inadequate samples or data” (Starr, 2012). The process produces an incomplete picture of the problem and its context. It is vulnerable to both researcher and respondent bias. It reveals primarily what their implicit, indigenous, heuristic mental model claims is important.

Starr’s second frame is analysis and problem-solving. This “is the world of science, research and evidenced-based applications—also useful but also limited because it only fixes what has been identified as broken” (Starr, 2012).

Technical experts or techsperts (Freedman & Zackrison, 2001) typically apply their implicit idiosyncratic versions of the scientific method on the basis of two related assumptions. The first is that a complex system1 should be broken down into its individual components. This enables the techspert or technocrat to analyze each component as an independent entity. The second assumption is that the techspert or technocrat can then reconstitute and comprehend the total system by linking the components in a linear fashion. This approach is thought to lead to the discovery of a single root cause that can be corrected. These are reductionist assumptions that direct the technocrat and techspert to restrict their focus to the internal components of the subsystem that seems to contain the focal problem.

While these assumptions appear to be reasonable, a more realistic description of a system is that it is “characterized by the interactions of its components and the nonlinearity of those interactions” (Walonick, 1993). The major weakness of the reductionist perspective is that apparent sources of dissatisfaction may be symptoms—like the tip of an iceberg—of a multiplicity of contributing root causes. Organizational mental models that are too specialized and too narrow in scope run the risk of misleading leaders, as they may not look deeply or broadly enough to identify the root causes of perceived dissatisfaction. Unintentionally, they may satisfy themselves with premature diagnoses and efforts to provide short-term symptomatic relief.

Decision-makers, particularly technocratic leaders and various kinds of SME and techspert, typically employ some variation of the scientific method (e.g. Alhazen, 1962; Galileo Galilei, 1974) to identify their targets or goals and action options. Starr, a protege of Russell Ackoff, recently said of this analytic–diagnostic perspective:

Russ used to remind me that “analyze” is a Greek word meaning, break into small parts which is what is done to problems most of the time and which leads to a search for root causes. But some problems cannot be deconstructed and do not have any root causes which is why systems thinking is important. This approach while focusing on interactions/interdependencies looks outside rather than within the problem to the containing system for solutions. He would tell me, if you are seeking root causes or trying to solve a problem from within the system holding the obvious problem, you are not thinking systemically. A “mess” or “wicked problem” cannot be understood or adequately addressed with analysis.

Russ used to argue that what makes human systems so “immune” to analysis and research approaches is that analysis assumes that all the parts will do what they are designed to do. But human systems are made of parts—people and groups—that have their own purposes [and interests that] are interdependent with systems outside each stated problem and which change. This means that only methods that capture these interests and values will be effective. Experimental designs rarely do this (Starr, 2012).

Hackman (2011) illustrated the analytic–diagnostic or analysis and problem-solving approach. He observed that many organizations employ a team-based problem-solving approach that he calls co-acting teams. In this apparently efficient process, the team is composed of representative members of relevant microsystems. It identifies a member—often the most senior person—to serve as its leader or coordinator. It analyzes and deconstructs the problem into its component parts. Team members identify the microsystems whose work either contributes to the problem or is affected by it. They then engage relevant microsystem representatives—usually the microsystems’ senior managers—who are believed to know the most about each component of the problem and obtain pertinent information from them about its cause and consequences. The team members then return to the team and pool the information they have gathered. Typically, the coordinator alone reconstitutes the problem by organizing the collected information in a linear manner using their indigenous mental model. This approach is not really team-based. It is more similar to the manner in which managers solve problems with the assistance of their subordinates. It is likely to miss the context and history of the problem and the critical relationships among the interdependent microsystems that contribute to and/or are affected by the focal problem. This occurs because co-acting team members generally find only what they are prepared to see.

Starr says:

I find most people think about systems, but do not think systemically … People use language about systems or refer to holism but they still try to deconstruct or discuss the importance of parts. In a system one cannot easily optimize any part because this leads to suboptimization of other parts … Instead it is more productive to redesign based on overall system requirements (Starr, 2012).

Starr’s third frame is systemic thinking for design and problem-dissolving:

These methods do not require research evidence because the approach creates what is needed or desired via [the creation of] a new set of conditions (the redesign) where the problem cannot exist [the problem is essentially “dissolved” when the new organizational design is ­created and installed]. Design thinking is the methodology of what to do when confronted with a systems problem (Starr, 2012).

Organizations benefit when their leaders think and act systemically. Systems-oriented leaders consider organizational changes in the context of the total system and its interactions with its environment, rather than merely focusing on the primary element that attracts critical attention. By thinking and acting systemically, leaders focus their attention on the interactions among the interdependent parts and levels of their organizations. Leaders who think in terms of systems are more likely to set realistic, comprehensive goals and establish viable strategies and plans for change. Practitioners and theorists such as Ackoff & Emery (1972), Ackoff (1977, 1981), Senge (1990), Senge et al. (1994), Jackson (2004), and Gharajedaghi (2011), among others, offer useful approaches to teaching leaders to comprehend their systems’ dynamics by mapping inter- and intra­systemic interactions that identify what is working well and what is dysfunctional.

Systemic thinking for design and problem-dissolving involves two other related diagnostic perspectives: holistic or systemic and functionalistic or strategic. The holistic or systemic perspective examines the total system in the context of its environment as a complete functioning unit, rather than as an aggregation of parts and elements. The systemic orientation enables diagnosticians to determine where to look to discover what is working well and what can be fixed or improved. Effective leaders use their systems orientation to look beyond the primary organizational entities that are affected by and affect plans for change. Recognizing that a change in one part or level of a system will perturb all other parts and levels, they anticipate that the implementation of their plans for systems change will affect secondary sites and that these, in turn, will impact tertiary parties located in all parts and levels of their organizations, including their external stakeholders. Planners and implementers can then anticipate and actively scan for where and how involved parties’ probable responses will affect the goals and plans for organizational change.

The functionalist or strategic perspective considers the contributions made by each microsystem towards realizing the purposes and strategic direction of its interdependent microsystems as well as of its larger macrosystem. A strategic orientation focuses on the extent to which the moment-to-moment tactical decisions made and actions taken by leaders at all hierarchical levels contribute to the achievement of their systems’ strategic goals.

Each of these perspectives (see Table 20.1) yields different yet useful diagnostic information. Separately, each elicits incomplete information. Organization development and change (OD&C) practitioners and consulting organizational psychologists ideally use all perspectives in their systems-diagnostic efforts. An integrated scientific–strategic–systemic approach also enables organizational designers to construct or redesign the organization’s human and physical architecture to aid members in operating effectively (e.g. Galbraith, 2002; Herman, 2002; Mackenzie, 1986; Mohrman et al., 1995; Nadler et al., 1992).

Using open sociotechnical systems (STS) models2 that include an integrated scientific–strategic–systemic orientation, planners and implementers of organizational change can conduct a series of comprehensive organizational diagnoses before implementing complex systems-change initiatives to identify critical internal and external transactions between interdependent organizational subsystems that affect or are affected by the planned change. During implementation, an STS diagnostic approach can be used to monitor progress and identify the occurrence of predictable surprises (Bazerman & Watkins, 2008; Freedman, 1997) and unanticipated consequences. Thus, leaders can adjust and modify their goals, milestones, strategies, and action plans to make them increasingly realistic and to prepare their organizations to deal with the most likely unintended consequences of planned-change initiatives, as well as inevitable predictable surprises. They can also identify how planned-change initiatives affect and are affected by interdependent functional and operational microsystems. Thus, secondary and tertiary changes in related microsystems can be contemplated to ensure alignment and support the primary change.

Table 20.1 Three approaches to applying the scientific method.

Approach Activity Advantages and disadvantages

Heuristic and personal-narrative approach to problem-solving—reductionist Generate hypotheses about causes of problem. Collect information from senior managers. Match information to hypotheses. Focus on data that fit; ignore or minimize significance of data that do not fit the hypotheses. Relatively quick. No verification of accuracy or comprehensiveness of managers’ information.

Analysis and problem-solving Break the problem into parts; analyze the parts; reassemble the parts. Identify actions needed to address revealed problem and its apparent root cause. Efficient, reasonable approach. Focus on symptomatic relief; apparent sources of systemic problems are often only symptoms of various root causes that are not addressed. Implementation problems are not considered in detail.

Holistic–systemic and functionalist–strategic Examine total system in context of its environment as a complete functioning unit; implementation of plans for systems change will affect secondary sites and in turn tertiary parties located in all parts and levels of an organization. Consider contributions made by each microsystem to realizing the purposes and strategic direction of its related interdependent microsystems and of the macrosystem. Expensive and time-consuming but realistic and comprehensive. Planners and implementers can anticipate and actively ascertain where and how involved parties’ probable responses will affect the goals and plans for organizational change. Focuses on the extent to which the moment-to-moment tactical decisions made and actions taken by leaders at all hierarchical levels contribute to the achievement of their systems’ strategic goals.





20.4 A Brief History of Systems Theory


Systems theory has a rich and valuable history. A review of the major STS models is presented in this section in some detail. Each theorist contributed not only a model but also their principles for thinking about systemic dynamics. Each built upon their predecessors and offered system leaders, OD&C practitioners, and consulting organizational psychologists useful ideas to consider when identifying targets for change, choosing interventions, and redesigning organizational systems.





20.4.1 1928, 1950, 1968: Ludwig von Bertalanffy’s general system theory


It is generally agreed that the Austrian biologist Ludwig von Bertalanffy established the foundations for what he called general system theory or GST (1950, 1968). David Walonick (1993) says that von Bertalanffy originally proposed his GST in 1928. von Bertalanffy believed that the primary task of any system is to survive; that is, systems exist to: provide their members with the means to access food, water, air, clothing, and shelter; provide value to stakeholders and constituents; and produce a profit or surplus.

von Bertalanffy thought of systems as perceived wholes—that is, systems may consist of cross-functional teams or functional work units, functional or operational departments or divisions, product or regional groups, total organizations, suprasystems such as joint ventures that are composed of several organizations, communities, cities, states, total societies, and the like—whose component elements are interdependent, affect one another over time, and, ideally, contribute to the realization of a common systemic purpose. Repetitive cycles of events reveal the functional structure of a system—that is, how the system as a whole actually operates. Thus, a basic method for identifying organizational structures is to follow the energy and the work as they pass along the chain of interdependent events and activities—the value chain, delivery chain, or supply chain.

von Bertalanffy (1968) believed that systems have five fundamental elements: a semipermeable boundary that surrounds and defines them; inputs; throughputs or transformational mechanisms; outputs; and feedback loops (see Figure 20.1).

Figure 20.1 The five essential elements of an open social system (von Bertalanffy, 1950). von Bertalanffy, L. (1950). The theory of open systems in physics and biology. Science, 3, 23–29.



The semipermeable boundary acts as a filter that allows some inputs and exports to pass into and out of the system and denies passage to others. Boundaries separate what is inside the organizational system from what is outside. The prevailing beliefs, values, histories, and mental models of the system’s members and, especially, its leaders determine the specific selective nature of the filter. Thus, the quality and nature of the boundary is a social construction (Gergen, 1999; Gergen & Gergen, 2003).

Inputs consist of the fundamental resources that the system believes it needs to produce its outputs. The organization’s external environment contains the sources of these resources (Rice, 1963). They include: qualified or trainable potential employees; information about customers’ needs and preferences; political, economic, regulatory, and competitive activity; raw material or components; capital for developmental or operational expenses; technology; advice and assistance from consultants; and the like. Changes in the environment and the reliability, quantity, quality, and costs of inputs force adaptive changes within the organizational system.

Outputs consist primarily of the goods and services produced by the system that are desired and valued by customers, and secondarily of such exports as salaries and wages that employees spend (in part or whole) to maintain their lifestyle while contributing to their local economies, banks, insurance companies, and utility companies. Outputs also include: dividends to stockholders; corporate in-kind contributions to local communities; waste products from the system’s transformational processes; reports to regulatory agencies; and accumulated knowledge about the system’s business operations. Changes in the environment—such as customers’ preferences or the emergence of competitors—require organizations to change their outputs.

Throughputs or transformational mechanisms consist of sequential or parallel and interdependent elements that contribute to the conversion of inputs (e.g. materials and components) into outputs (e.g. goods and services). These elements constitute the organization’s production line (or value chain, supply chain, or delivery chain), which adds incremental value to the production of outputs. It also includes all ancillary functions that do not directly contribute to production but support those who perform production functions—such as human-resource management. Changes in throughput elements—new technological innovations—require the organization to adapt and incorporate these changes into its transformational process and reestablish alignment among elements.

Feedback loops are the means by which organizational members can determine the extent to which the system, each of its subsystems, the interdependent interactions between subsystems, and the input–output transactions between the organization and involved supplier and consumer stakeholder groups in the external environment are operating as needed and as expected.

Feedback can be used to help organizational members maintain an existing equilibrium, restore a disrupted equilibrium, or assess progress towards a new equilibrium (von Bertalanffy, 1968). Feedback loops serve as the means through which critical information is provided to leaders and managers in order to enable them to conduct analyses of variance and to locate and adjust such elements as employee deployment, structures, processes, practices, transactions, relationships, and procedures, as needed.

von Bertalanffy believed that the GST applies to all living systems, the physical sciences, and all kinds and types of organization. He, Churchman (1968), and Ackoff & Trist (1974) demonstrated that open systems theory can be applied to planning, changing, and managing social systems.





20.4.2 1948: Norbert Weiner


Norbert Weiner (1948) introduced the term cybernetics to describe the science of control and communications. He differentiated between negative and positive feedback and how they influence purposive behavior that is directed towards goal attainment. Negative feedback refers to information about the divergence of actions from a goal. This guides the planning and taking of corrective action. Positive feedback is information that amplifies behavioral deviations and identifies situations where parts of a system operate out of alignment with the system’s goals. Communications is essential in exchanging information about both positive and negative feedback that is necessary to controlling the actions of machines and people.





20.4.3 1964: Harold J. Leavitt’s organizational systems model


Harold J. Leavitt (1964) was the first organizational theorist to create a diagrammatic model of an organizational system (Figure 20.2). However, he described a closed system that omitted the external environment, boundaries, inputs, outputs, feedback, and the flow of information and work from inputs to transformational mechanisms to outputs. He identified the key elements of his mental model as task, structure, technology, and people. These four categories and their interactions enabled practitioners to organize the raw data they collected during diagnostic activities into actionable categories. While breaking new ground, Leavitt’s model was far too simplistic to capture the complexities of modern organizations.

Figure 20.2 Harold J. Leavitt’s Sociotechnical System Model (1964).

Leavitt, H.J. (1964). “Applied organizational change in industry: Structural, technical, and human approaches.” In W.W. Cooper (Ed.), New perspectives in organization research. New York: John Wiley.



Task is the purpose of the organization in terms of the production of goods and services, including all further subtasks necessary for the accomplishment of the primary task. Structure includes all issues of communication, hierarchy, and work process. Technology includes all the technical instruments and procedures for task fulfillment. The people category includes all those who participate in the operations of the system.

Leavitt placed many incompatible systemic elements that should have been differentiated in each of the four categories. Other theorists have tried to correct this error (see Section 20.4.7). A critical element of Leavitt’s model is that all of the elements are connected by reciprocal transactions. Thus, whatever occurred or changed in one element would have an impact on all other elements. This interactivity is a fundamental characteristic of open social systems.





20.4.4 1963–1997: Eric Trist and the Tavistock Group’s STS theory


Eric Trist and his colleagues at the Tavistock Institute in the UK (e.g. Ackoff, 1981; Ackoff & Trist, 1972; Colman & Bexton, 1975; Colman & Geller, 1985; Cummings & Srivastva, 1977; Emery, 1969; Miller, 1976; Pasmore & Sherwood, 1978; Rice, 1963; Trist & Murray, 1990, 1993; Trist et al., 1963, 1997) introduced the concept of STS. Their studies revealed that efforts to change only the technical systems of an organization without addressing its social system—or vice versa—produce suboptimal results. They also emphasized the interdependent nature of transactions between organizations and their environments. As Russell L. Ackoff (1981) pointed out, “A technocratic culture runs the risk of getting the right solutions to the wrong problems. A humanistic culture runs the risk of getting the wrong solutions to the right problems” (p. 62). Thus, it is not a question of adopting either one approach or the other. Rather, it is a challenge of how to embrace both views as legitimate aspects of common issues. According to Ackoff (1981), an STS involves:

the joint operation of two independent but correlative systems: a social system composed of human beings who are the required actors in the performance of work, and a technological system made up of the tools, techniques, and methods of doing that are employed in task accomplishment. Specifically, “… it is impossible to optimize for overall performance without seeking to optimize jointly the correlative but independent social and technological systems” (Davis & Trist, 1972, p. 3).

Further, an STS:

continually interacts with an environment which both influences and is influenced by the work system. … a sociotechnical system exists and grows only to the extent that it maintains viable interchanges with its environment [that] involve a two-way flow of information and certain forms of matter and energy between the system and its environment (Cummings, 1978, p. 168).

While the Tavistock Group did not produce a collaborative mental model of an STS—except for Bridger (1977)—it did produce most of the theory and method for applying STSs to diagnosing and guiding the planning of change in large and small systems.





20.4.5 1969: Lawrence and Lorsch’s differentiation and integration model


This venerable, evidence-based model is extremely valuable in aiding leaders in designing and managing the mechanisms through which they attempt to reduce variance in their employees’ performance. While it is not a comprehensive STS model, it does utilize a number of STS elements and concepts. Lawrence & Lorsch (1969) suggest that STS models serve to expand human capacity to simultaneously consider and deal with many more variables in conscious awareness than the seven (plus or minus two) they could otherwise.

Lawrence & Lorsch (1969) see organizations as entities that are created by people in order to take collective action to improve their ability to cope with the demands of their environment. They state that “a framework for thinking about … organization development is an essential step toward understanding and action” (p. 9). As have other scholars, these theorists accept the STS principle that all parts of a system are interdependent and that “a change in one part has an impact on the others” (p. 10). A second principle of STSs is their capacity for morphogenesis—the primary distinguishing quality of human organizations. That is, organizations can decide to change themselves by comparing their desired results with the perceived actual outputs that have been produced by implementing their selected strategy. “Important [repetitive] discrepancies are defined as a problem and a search is undertaken for causes and remedies” (p. 11). Some discrepancies suggest problems that can be fixed, while others suggest the existence of opportunities that the organization might choose to exploit.

As systems grow, specialized functional and operational elements evolve to perform their unique functions. That is, decision-makers redesign and differentiate the component microsystems. “How much differentiation should exist … depends on what internal characteristics each group [or microsystem] must develop to carry out planned transactions with its assigned part of the environment” (p. 12). They imply that different microsystems within the same macrosystem are likely to have different cultures. When microsystems perform significantly different functions, they must be differentiated from one another in terms of how their members think and act. This mental model can be applied with any differentiated subsystem or with the macrosystem as a whole.

It is essential that the activities of differentiated microsystems are coordinated and achieve a high degree of integration so that each contributes to the realization of its macrosystem’s mission and strategic goals. However, it is quite difficult to integrate highly-differentiated but interdependent microsystems while the members of each think and act in their own very homogeneous manner. When microsystems must be highly differentiated and tightly integrated, supplemental integrating devices must be developed—individual coordinators, cross-system teams, entirely new microsystems—in order to achieve and maintain integration.

Since conflicts of interest are inevitable when differentiated but interdependent microsystems attempt to collaborate in the service of the macrosystem’s purpose and goals, Lawrence & Lorsch (1969) identified the need for conflict-management skills to facilitate and maintain integration among microsystems. They also believed that the people who have the greatest knowledge about relevant environmental conditions should use their informational or expert power and influence at the hierarchical level at which pertinent decisions are made.

Lawrence & Lorsch’s (1969) conceptual framework (Figure 20.3) spells out 10 critical interfaces: (1) a transactional strategy, including goals, spanning the boundary between the system and its external environment; if the system is a microsystem, its external environment is the larger macrosystem. Goals provide a target for the strategy. The strategy produces a set of three plans: (2) human-resource needs; (3) differentiation of task activities; and (4) an integrative structure for communications and decision-making. The (5) individual contributors that are recruited into the system bring with them not only (6) the knowledge, skills, and abilities (KSAs) needed to perform the expected tasks (their contributions) but also their own unique unplanned predispositions. The mix of these six factors combines to form (7) a complex and unique set of expectations for all system members—for themselves, each other, and the system. These expectations guide but do not totally determine (8) the system members’ actual behaviors. The sum of system members’ behaviors produces the system’s outputs, which are delivered through (9) the system’s transactional results. By conducting (10) a variance analysis based on feedback, which assesses the degree to which the results satisfied the goals, the information needed to determine whether changes or adjustments are needed in any or all of the 10 critical systemic interfaces is provided.

Figure 20.3 Lawrence & Lorsch’s Differentiation and Integration Model (1967).

Lawrence, P.R., & Lorsch, J.W. (1969). Developing organizations: Diagnosis and action. Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley, p. 17.



The criterion that should be used to assess:

whether a particular change will lead to the development of the organization at any one or all of these interfaces is whether the change will lead to either a better fit between the organization and the demands of its environment and/or to a better fit between the organization and the needs of individual contributors” (Lawrence & Lorsch, 1969, p. 18).

The results can be used to make a descriptive diagnosis of the current state at any organizational level—such as that of a macro- or microsystem. By analyzing the demand characteristics of the environment and/or the needs of individual contributors and stakeholders, a normative prescription can be created to provide the best fit between systemic characteristics and both task requirements and the needs of individual contributors.





20.4.6 1976: Weisbord’s six-box organizational model


Weisbord (1976) produced a model that is easy for unsophisticated leaders and consultants to comprehend and explain to others. According to Starr (2012), Weisbord based his model, in part, on Ackoff’s work. Thus, it remains very popular with some OD&C practitioners, who in turn present it to system leaders in explaining how the six boxes and their interdependencies help to diagnose systems and plan for change. The model illuminates the centrality of leadership and that rewards or incentives are needed to ensure that individuals perform essential tasks. Further, Weisbord draws attention to the idea that technical or structural changes must be supported by various “helpful mechanisms,” without which the change efforts are not likely to achieve their intended benefits. Thus, by identifying some STS elements, the six-box model (Figure 20.4) may help leaders to understand that any systemic change will have secondary and tertiary impacts on organizational purposes, structure, and relationships. Weisbord likened his model to a radar screen, which leaders can quickly scan to identify trouble spots. Unfortunately, he lumps dissimilar but related elements together rather than treating them separately. For example, formal organizational structure is combined with informal or cultural elements. He also lumps all helpful mechanisms into a separate, systemic box, even though they are more properly located in specific microsystems. For example, it is highly unlikely that mechanisms that are helpful to the human-resource management microsystem will also be helpful to marketing and sales microsystems—and vice versa. Similarly, the kind of leadership required at a systemic level is quite likely to be different from the leadership at executive-management, middle-management, and supervisory levels (Freedman, 1997; Jaques, 1987). In short, the six boxes are inadequate for conducting a comprehensive systemic diagnosis (Burke, 2002).

Figure 20.4 Weisbord’s six-box organizational model (1976).

Weisbord, M.R. (1976). Organizational diagnosis: Six places to look for trouble with or without a theory. Group and Organizational Studies, 1, pp. 430–447.



Weisbord (1976) used questions to explicate the contents of each of the six boxes. These questions are intended to evoke responses from organizational members during the data-collection phase. This reveals a weakness of the model: by asking questions regarding each of the six boxes that can be answered “yes” or “no,” diagnosticians restrict respondents’ focus of attention. Useful contextual information, elaborations, and clarifications may be ignored or unrecognized. Thus, the recommended questions may evoke incomplete—albeit still useful—data. Some questions require modifications. For example, to collect information about respondents’ perceptions concerning the first box, (1) the purpose of their system, Weisbord suggests asking, “How clear are you about the organization’s purpose and mission?” and “How supportive are you of the organization’s purpose and mission?” Understanding and supporting the organization’s purpose and mission are extremely important. But the questions are closed-ended and invite such cryptic responses as “Very clear,” “Not very clear,” “Not at all,” and the like. Open-ended questions that invite respondents to disclose more of what they are thinking would be more useful—such as, “How do you understand your organization’s purpose and mission?” and “Why are your organization’s purpose and mission important to you (or to organizational members in general)?”

(2) Structure raises the question of the fit between the whole system’s purpose and mission and the internal structure of the system. The internal structure comprises very different elements or microsystems that would be more appropriately separated, as in other STS models. (3) Rewards asks about the fit between what the system actually rewards and punishes and what system members believe they are rewarded or punished for doing or not doing. Again, different rewards and sanctions are likely to be applied for quite different behaviors in different microsystems, which might complement or conflict with rewards administrated at the total system level. (4) The helpful mechanisms box asks about the quality of processes and procedures that help (and hinder) members when doing their jobs. But this category should be applied to each component of an STS model, separately. (5) Relationships covers three categories: relationships between individuals; between and among microsystems; and between individuals and their job requirements. It anticipates that conflicts are inevitable and includes questions about how well the organization’s conflict-management mechanisms function. (6) Leadership asks how well leaders maintain balance among the other boxes. This is a rather limited explanation of leadership functions.

Weisbord (1976) did contribute three useful ideas about how his and other STS models might be applied. First, they may emphasize the need to consider the motivations and contributions of the individual. Second, they can help identify the size and nature of any gaps in the fit between the individual and the system. Third, STS models can illuminate the degree to which the system and its environment are congruent by identifying discrepancies between respondents’ perceptions of both (1) the system’s current and (2) its desired future states. These contrasting perceptions could serve to both establish baseline measures of the current state and identify potential targets for planned change. However, as Burke (2002) observed, Weisbord’s model provides little guidance about the critical nature of the cause-and-effect linkages among the six boxes.





20.4.7 1977: Bridger’s open-STS “pentagram” model


Harold Bridger (1977), a colleague of Emery, Rice, and Trist at the Tavistock Institute, created his pentagram model of an open STS using some of Leavitt’s elements and adding goal-setting to tasks, introducing leadership procedures as a new element and placing management activities (balancing and optimizing) in a central position (see Figure 20.5). Bridger’s model (1977) included all five of the fundamental characteristics of von Bertalanffy’s GST. In addition, he emphasized the interdependent interactivity of the elements. Interestingly, as far as I know, his is the only articulated mental model of an STS that came out of the Tavistock Institute.

Figure 20.5 Bridger’s Organizational Sociotechnical Pentagram Model (1977).

Bridger, H. (1977). “The value of the organization’s own systems in coping with stress.” Proceedings of the International Committee on Occupational Mental Health Congress, New York, 1977.



Bridger (1977) defines the environment as external to the organization and as distinguished by its semipermeable boundary. Thus, the system is in a continuous exchange with a turbulent, constantly-changing environment. People includes system members’ diverse values, vested interests, attitudes, education, group or peer ties, leadership behavior, power relationships, and dependencies. Goal-setting and tasks constitutes the primary purpose of the organization in terms of delivering goods and services at a profit. However, delivering outputs does not specify a system’s purpose; rather, outputs are a primary means of achieving that purpose. Technology refers to administrative resources and procedures, accounting, information systems, marketing, sales, advertising, investment goods, production, and so on. Structures encompasses division of labor, hierarchy, communications, leadership structures, organizational structure, and so on. Management activities includes selection, evaluation, and promotion systems, wage and salary systems, control systems, and monitoring systems. These functions are more appropriately included in a human-resource management function. Leadership procedures involves designing processes needed to balance and run the entire system.

Bridger’s (1977) model does not show how an organizational change flows through a system in a cause-and-effect manner such as that in Lawrence & Lorsch’s (1967) model. It seems like his model is scalable in the sense that it can be applied to the total system as well as to its component functional and operational microsystems. While it is an advancement beyond Leavitt (1964) and Weisbord (1976), its usefulness is still rather limited, since it is not as detailed as is needed for a truly comprehensive systemic diagnosis.





20.4.8 1977: Nadler–Tushman’s congruence model


David A. Nadler (1998) and Michael L. Tushman (1997) created their contingency model (Figure 20.6) to help managers and OD&C practitioners organize the way in which they understand how organizational systems function. The contingency model contains all of the qualities of an STS. As have other theorists, Nadler (1998) points out that all managers have developed an explicit or, most often, an implicit mental model of their organizations:

Figure 20.6 The Nadler–Tushman congruence model for diagnosing organizational behavior (1977).

Nadler, D.A., & Tushman, M.L. (1977). A diagnostic model for organization behavior. In Hackman, J.R., E.E. Lawler, & L.W. Porter, eds. Perspectives on behavior in organizations. New York: McGraw-Hill, pp. 85–100.



every manager’s personal organizational model largely determines what data he or she thinks is important to collect. In fact, the model shapes not only what data managers collect but how they collect it—in what form, and from whom—and how they analyze it, what they perceive as problems, what they conceive of as solutions, and how they go about putting those solutions into action (p. 26).

Input, according to Nadler (1998), has three component elements: (1) the environment, which exerts powerful influences on both macrosystems and microsystems—demands, constraints, opportunities; (2) resources, which are tangible (e.g. capital, plant, facilities, numbers and types of employees) but do not retain their value over time (e.g. customer relations and employees’ creativity); and (3) history, which includes the system’s crises, achievements, failures, mistakes, routine activities, problem-solving practices, and other significant events.

Business strategy3 represents the system’s set of enacted decisions about how to configure its resources with respect to its environment’s demands, constraints, and opportunities in terms of the system’s historical context. These decisions include: (1) markets—Who are our customers? What do they need or want?; (2) products and services to be produced—What satisfies customer needs and wants?; (3) competition—the qualities, attributes, or characteristics of outputs or the manner in which they are delivered, which give the system a competitive advantage over its competitors; and (4) performance objectives and the means by which they are expected to be measured.

The operating organization comprises the mechanisms through which inputs are transformed into outputs. It has four component elements: work, people, formal organizational arrangements, and informal organizational arrangements. More specifically:

(1) Work—The basic work performed by employees at both the macro- and microsystem levels. This includes: (a) required employee KSAs; (b) intrinsic rewards derived from work; (c) the uncertainty, interdependence, and repetitiveness of work; and (d) inherent constraints on performance.

(2) People—Employees’ individual characteristics, including: (a) KSAs; (b) expectations and perceptions, needs, and preferences for types of reward; and (c) demographics, personal backgrounds, and histories pertinent to work.

(3) Formal organizational arrangements—Formal structures, processes, and methods that induce employees to perform tasks required to achieve strategic objectives, which include: (a) groupings of functions, hierarchies, and coordination and control mechanisms; (b) job design; (c) work environment; and (d) human-resource management systems.

(4) Informal organizational arrangements—Emerging structures, processes, and arrange­ments that “balance the demands of the work and the needs of the people” (Nadler, 1998, p. 36). These include: (a) actual leadership behavior; (b) intra-subsystem relations; (c) inter-subsystem relations; (d) informal rules and working arrange­ments; (e) communications and influence patterns; and (f) organizational culture.



Nadler (1998) named his model after his notion of congruence. That is, the extent to which each internal component element fits or is aligned with all other internal elements relates to how effective the system is in “transforming [its] strategies into performance” (p. 38). He believed that the first step in determining what systemic changes should be made must be taken wherever there are misalignments—that is, where there is a lack of congruence. Leaders and consultants must attend to three critical assessments: (1) the extent to which the system’s strategy is congruent with the environment’s resources and history; (2) the extent to which the system’s strategy is congruent with its formal organization; and (3) the extent to which all internal organizational components are congruent with one another. Nadler’s notion of congruence is consistent with Kahle (1979), particularly with regard to person–environment fit.

The congruence model describes: (1) the system’s technical–structural dimension along the horizontal axis of the diagram; and (2) the social dimension (i.e. people and the informal components) along the vertical axis. Nadler & Tushman (1977) saw this not as a prescriptive contingency model but rather as one that could be adapted to any given set of external and internal conditions. Nadler (1998) also believed the contingency model helps us to understand the dynamics of the implementation of change efforts, because we can “trace the ripple of change through the organizational system” (p. 43). Finally, he saw the model as a tool that leaders and OD&C practitioners can use to organize their thinking about systemic dynamics in the context of a constantly changing set of environmental conditions.





20.4.9 1983: Tichy’s technical, political, cultural framework


Although he is best noted for his work on leadership and his close association with GE, Noel Tichy (2004) did create an STS “framework” that focuses on organizational change (Tichy, 1983). Essentially, his technical, political, cultural (TPC) framework (Figure 20.7) describes a system in terms of nine component “levers of change”: (1) the interface with the external environment, through which the system accesses its requisite inputs; (2) the system’s mission, describing its purposes; (3) the system’s strategy for realizing its objectives; (4) management of the system’s mission and strategic processes through engagement of all relevant stakeholder groups that have an interest in the enterprise; (5) tasks that are to be retained and replaced or added as a result of—or to enable—any systemic change; (6) the formal organization of prescribed intrasystem networks; (7) organizational processes such as communications, problem-solving, and decision-making; (8) people; and (9) the informal organization’s emergent networks. Management functions are conceived of as being spread throughout the system, so it is not characterized as a singular or distinctive lever of change. Output (systemic performance) is assumed to be “a function of the characteristics of each of the components of the model, as well as a function of how the components interrelate and align into a functioning system” (Tichy, 1983, p. 72).

Figure 20.7 The Tichy TPC framework (1983).

Tichy, N.M. (1983). Managing strategic change: Technical, political, and cultural dynamics. New York: John Wiley & Sons.



Cutting across the nine change levers, Tichy (1983) identified three primary systems that he believed were critical for understanding systemic dynamics and change (Figure 20.8): (1) the technical system, representing a rational–logical orientation; (2) the political system, representing the power dynamics operating within the system; and (3) the cultural system, related to the system’s shared norms and values—or “cultural schemes”—that link people together. Effective change efforts required that all three primary systems be aligned or realigned. He predicted that, when based upon only one or two of these three systems, change efforts would be relatively ineffective.

Figure 20.8 Tichy’s TPC matrix (1983).

Tichy, N.M. (1983). Managing strategic change: Technical, political, and cultural dynamics. New York: John Wiley & Sons.



To conduct a meaningful system diagnosis, Tichy (1983) believed that information must be collected—presumably from all relevant parties, including internal and external stakeholders—for each cell in the matrix. He was one of the few theorists to emphasize the importance of inviting system members to become actively involved in the diagnostic process. He believed these data could identify what was and was not in alignment, and that they could also clarify the nature and degree of change required to establish or reestablish alignment—horizontally and vertically.

The TPC matrix may also serve a predictive purpose: changing one cell perturbs the entire system. Thus, when focusing on changing the elements in that cell, leaders and consultants can expect secondary and tertiary changes in the elements contained in the cells bordering it.





20.4.10 1970–1980: Burke–Litwin model of organizational performance and change


W. Warner Burke and George H. Litwin (2002) co-created an STS model (Figure 20.9) that has two important characteristics. First, it has been partly verified by research. Second, it contains an explicit cause-and-effect sequence that prescribes how leaders and OD&C practitioners can plan a sequence of interventions that may achieve revolutionary change objectives. While recognizing overlaps with other models, Burke (2002) considers the 12 components of the model to be essential for understanding and analyzing organizational systems. Like others, Burke (2002) points out that changes in any component will impact all other components. He distinguishes five transformational factors (for radical change) from eight transactional factors (for incremental change) in the model.

Figure 20.9 The Burke–Litwin model of organizational performance and change (late 1970s to early 1980s).



Transformational factors include: external environment, mission and strategy, organizational culture, individual and organizational performance, and leadership. External environmental factors cause changes in one or more of the other four transformational factors, especially leadership. Changing transformational factors often results in radical, discontinuous, episodic, and revolutionary change.

External environment may influence system performance. Such forces and variables include politics, governmental regulations, financial–economic conditions, and changing technology. The transformational factors that are most influenced are mission, strategy, leadership, and culture.

Mission states the purpose and primary goals of the system. Strategy concerns how the system intends to realize its mission.Mission and strategy are influenced most by leadership.

Organizational culture encompasses the system’s norms and values—that is, the implicit rules governing acceptable behavior within the system. Culture also exerts considerable influence on mission and strategy.

Individual and organizational performance is not elaborated.

(Vision is not a distinct category but is implied by the model. It reflects the “passion” that leaders and members may feel about their collective future, as well as their aspirations and desired goals.)

Leadership permeates the entire system and ties the other four transformational factors together. It provides direction and orients members towards the desired future. It is seen as consisting of persuading, influencing, serving followers, and acting as a role model.



Transactional factors relate to management as they concern the system’s routine operations. Change in one or more of these eight elements causes incremental, evolutionary, or selective changes.

Management practices include roles, tasks, goal-setting, utilization of system resources, and rewarding of members. Managers use these practices to carry out the system’s strategy for realizing its goals and mission.

Structure defines the system’s functional and operational microsystems. It indicates levels of authority, responsibility, lines of communications, and relationships among microsystems. Strategy is determined before—and, to an extent, strongly influences—structure and tasks.

Systems consist of policies and procedures intended to support and enable system members to discharge their responsibilities. Included are management information systems, performance management systems (including goal-setting, performance appraisal, and reward systems), budgeting processes, and HR deployment systems and procedures. Strategic HR management effectiveness (e.g. internally-consistent rules, regulations, policies, and procedures) may be stronger predictors of positive performance than technical HR management effectiveness (e.g. recruiting, selecting, training, compensation/benefits, and performance measurement). However, to place such disparate systems in the same category makes it difficult to recognize and assess their unique, respective contributions.

Work-unit climate refers to members’ collective perceptions of, their managers, the clarity of managers’ expectations, recognition for work, involvement in decision-making, challenging and fair work standards, support from other work-unit members, and transactions with other systemic work units. Structure and management practices directly affect these task requirements. Burke (2002) believes that a participative climate positively influences motivation and productivity—and, ultimately, customer satisfaction.

Task requirements, and individual skills and abilities, refers to the congruence between the requirements of an individual’s job, role, and responsibilities and his or her KSAs—also referred to as P–E fit (Kahle, 1979).

Motivation is concerned with the arousal of individuals’ feelings about their own needs, which, when converted into action directed towards systemic goals, may satisfy those needs. Since human needs tend to persist until they are satisfied, Burke (2002) advises system leaders and managers to craft organizationally-relevant goals that also satisfy individuals’ unmet needs. Motivation influences performance through intervening variables: task requirements, individual KSAs, and individual needs and values. These intervening variables must be congruent with one another to result in effective performance.

Individual needs and values concern the extent to which there is congruence or fit between “what the individual believes is important, worthwhile, and valuable and what the organization stands for, such as its purpose, values, and how people in and out of the organization (including customers) are treated” (Burke, 2002, p. 208).

Individual and organizational performance may be directly influenced by the system’s responses to the external environment. Both strategy and leadership positively affect performance. Performance can be measured by such quantitative and qualitative variables as productivity, quality, innovation, customer satisfaction, profits, market share, and earnings per share.



Burke (2002) advises that planned change should flow either from the top to bottom or laterally from the external environment to performance. However, he acknowledges that the existing research does not validate the entire model and that more comprehensive studies are called for.





20.4.11 1987: Porras’s stream-analysis model


Jerry Porras’s (1987) stream-analysis model of organizations (Figure 20.10) enables leaders and OD&C practitioners to both diagnose problems and guide corrective action. This begins with the environment’s affect on the organization and, in particular, on the system’s purpose—that is, the system’s collective reasons for existing. Porras (1987) believed, “These reasons guide the decisions made by both the leaders and members of the system” (p. 75). Organizational purpose has a dual orientation. Looking outward, system leaders and members scan their pertinent environments and apprehend their ­constantly-changing multiple demands to identify such variables as: targets of opportunity, threats from competition, sources and availability of essential resources (e.g. raw material, components, and human, mechanical, technological, and fiscal resources), changes in the market, restrictions (or absence thereof) imposed by government regulations, and the influence of the media and the investment community. Looking inward, the significance and meanings attributed to their environment are viewed through members’ collective perceptual filter of the system’s purpose, and in turn influence the system’s responses to the environment.

Figure 20.10 Porras’s Stream Analysis Model (1987).

Porras, J.I. (1987, p. 84). Stream analysis: A powerful way to diagnose and manage organizational change. Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley.



The system’s vision, mission, and strategies are, then, derived from its purpose:

A vision is often a representation of what the organization might look like if it were ­accomplishing its purpose. Vision reflects the core reasons for the organization’s existence and … broadly guides decision makers as they pick and choose among the many short-term options and paths available to the organization” (Porras, 1987, p. 76).

However, there is little agreement among systems theorists or strategic-planning techsperts on a single definition of a vision or how it might best be used.

Interaction between the external environment and a system’s internal operations is multidirectional. The environment makes demands of the system. The system’s responses affect the environment. When either demands or responses change, one or the other must adapt. While many theorists identify various systemic components as the levers for change, Porras (1987) believes that the individual system member is the critical lever for change. Systemic change occurs “only when the people in the organization have changed the way they function” (p. 38). These changes include: how they make decisions; how they execute their assigned tasks; how they communicate information, to whom, and what that information is; the quality with which they perform their responsibilities; their creativity; and what, if any, actions they initiate. When members do not understand and/or accept their system’s espoused purpose, they are likely to substitute their personal purposes. Members at all levels and in all parts of the system may make idiosyncratic decisions that are incongruent with one another and with their system’s espoused purpose. They may focus on different aspects of environmental changes or decide that different actions are called for. A possible consequence is that microsystems may attempt to maximize their own interests—and operate against the interests of other microsystems and those of the macrosystem as a whole.

The stream-analysis model explicates the elements that a system creates to shape and guide its members’ on-the-job behavior. Specifically, Porras (1987) proposes four basic dimensions that, if changed, will also change the system’s expectations of members’ behavior, members’ expectations of themselves, and the value or valence members have for achieving specific outcomes. Porras (1987) credits Germane (1986) for elaborating the elements of the following four dimensions: (1) organizing arrangements; (2) social factors; (3) technology; and (4) physical setting. These dimensions provide individual system members with cues about the behaviors that will most likely be seen and rewarded and will enable them to achieve both their personal goals and their organization’s objectives. The assumption is that, based on these cues, people will choose to act in ways that either increase or decrease organizational performance. Of all STS models, this is probably the most extensive and precise description of a system’s component operational elements.

Organizing arrangements (Germane, 1986) include: (1) goals; (2) strategies; (3) formal structure; (4) administrative policies and procedures; (5) administrative systems; and (6) formal reward systems—that is, evaluation systems, pay systems, bonuses, and benefits packages.

Social factors (Germane, 1986) include: (1) culture—basic assumptions, values, norms, language and jargon, rituals, history, stories, myths, and symbols; (2) interaction processes—interpersonal, group, and intergroup; (3) social patterns and networks—formal and informal communications, problem-solving and decision-making, influence, and status; and (4) individual attributes—attitudes and beliefs, behavioral skills, and feelings.

Technology (Germane, 1986) includes: (1) tools, equipment, and machinery; (2) technical expertise; (3) job design; (4) work-flow design; (5) technical policies and procedures; and (6) technical systems.

The physical setting (Germane, 1986) includes: (1) space configuration—size, shape, and relative locations; (2) physical ambiance—light, heat, noise, air quality, and cleanliness; (3) interior design—decorations, furniture, window coverings, colors of floor, walls, and ceilings; and (4) architectural design. Porras’s attention to the physical setting is unique compared with other STS models and is consistent with Harry Levinson’s belief in the psychological importance of the physical setting for diagnostic purposes (e.g. Freedman & Bradt, 2009; Levinson, 1994, 2002).

Taken together, and when compared with other theorists, Porras’s four basic dimensions provide greater elaboration of the component STS elements. Porras (1987) points out that “all four dimensions are interconnected. If one is going to be changed and the effects on the others are not considered, then the impact of what is done will be reduced” (p. 71). He points out the importance of alignment of these areas by saying, “the key strategy for changing a system is to design each of the four areas in such a way that all give the same message to people about their behavior” (p. 71).

To change a system, one must first understand the component parts and how they fit together. One must also know how changing one part is likely to change the other parts and how, by changing the configuration of parts, one will change the system’s outputs. One must know how each component influences individual system members’ on-the-job behaviors. If contradictions between these four dimensions occur:

each organizational member will respond in a unique pattern of these messages, perceiving some and missing others, valuing some and ignoring others, remembering some and forgetting others. As a result, predicting how any one individual will behave as a consequence of a contradictory set of messages is very difficult (p. 74).

Complete system-wide consistency may not be possible. However, if the messages emitted by the four sets of dimensions are even relatively consistent, more system members will be similar in the ways they perceive the purpose of their system and consistent in making decisions and taking action. This is quite in accordance with the theory of Lawrence & Lorsch (1967).





20.4.12 1981–2011: Freedman’s swamp model of STSs


Freedman (1981–2011) created a mental model of a complex STS (see Figure 20.11). Participants in an NTL Institute workshop on organizational diagnosis named it “the swamp model” (Julie Noolan, personal communication). They chose this name “because things flow into it, things bubble up from the bottom, and things flow out.” To them, it looked like a schematic diagram of a very complex and complicated primordial swamp.

Figure 20.11 The Freedman STS “swamp model” for organizational diagnosis (1978–1987).



There are 14 elements to be considered in this model. Many of the detailed components of elements that Porras (1987) and Germane (1986) specified are relevant to it.

Input or supply-side stakeholders consist of: suppliers of raw materials, components, theoretical propositions, research results, and the like; regulatory commissions; investors; collectors of market information about customers and competitors; various sources of information about such environmental factors as industry trends, economics, politics, and weather conditions; and providers of potential employees. Inputs vary by their nature, quality, and reliability.

Supply-side boundary-spanning mechanisms consist of specialized systems, units, or func­tions that manage critical transactions across the lateral interface between external stakeholders and the organizational system. Specialized unit members are responsible for proactively scouting and scanning the environment (Holder & McKinney, 1993) for threats and opportunities, negotiating and conducting input–output transactions with external stakeholders, assessing suppliers’ compliance with mutually-negotiated standards, establishing and following procedures to determine the acceptability of inputs, and specifying the amount and type of decision-making authority for all involved parties. They also ensure effective communications between the organization and the supply-side stakeholders: clarifying and negotiating goals and roles, managing and utilizing conflict, clarifying and negotiating mutual expectations, negotiating decision-making procedures and strategies, jointly identi­fying and dealing with emerging issues, and negotiating commitments and consequences.

Strategic direction is formulated by organizational leaders and members, based in large part on the information about prevailing environmental conditions and trends that are obtained from supply-side stakeholders through various boundary-spanning units. According to Hambrick & Fredrickson (2005), systems leaders and their OD&C practitioner consultants must have “an integrated, overarching concept of how the business will achieve its objectives” (p. 51). A single, unified strategy must have components. Leaders are ultimately responsible for creating a viable strategy for their systems. They must organize that information to formulate a strategy design. Hambrick & Fredrickson (2005) present a functional framework for this, which consists of five elements, each of which is framed by questions. (1) Arenas asks, “Where will we be active?” For example, will the system operate locally, regionally, nationally, internationally, or globally? (2) Vehicles asks, “How will we get there?” (3) Differentiators asks, “How will we win in the marketplace?” or “What is our competitive advantage?” (4) Staging asks, “What will our speed and sequence of moves be?” (5) Economic logic asks, “How will we obtain our returns?”

Systems leaders vary considerably with regard to their optimism and pessimism about their organizations’ futures. Their attitudes along this dimension often result in a considerable number of frequently intense and counterproductive conflicts when trying to agree on a single future that is both desirable and feasible. Therefore, Freedman (1981–2011) recommends factoring the information gathered from Hambrick & Fredrickson’s (2005) five sets of questions into a set of alternative future scenarios that describe possible and probable environmental conditions in which the organization may operate over some predetermined span of years. Together, the alternative future scenarios constitute Freedman’s (1981–2011) version of a vision. Participants are divided into three teams based upon their self-assessments of their optimism–pessimism. The team of the most pessimistic leaders creates the worst-case scenario. The most optimistic leaders create the best-case scenario. The leaders who rated themselves in the middle create the most-likely-case scenario. For each scenario, teams specify six elements: the unique mission, the goals, the strategies, the milestones, the plans, and the philosophy or values that are intended to guide the organization’s operational decisions under the conditions of their scenario. Further, by creating at least three alternative future scenarios, giving serious consideration to alternative exigencies, it is easier for leaders to adjust and adapt to emerging, unprecedented environmental conditions—whether or not those conditions are accurately predicted.

Financial management includes systems that track projected and actual revenues and costs, auditing systems and procedures, profit-and-loss statements, cash flow, the incremental value added by each element of the organization’s value chain, and the financial costs and value of capital investments.

Human-resource management supports line management by performing such functions as: strategic HR planning for the system’s future needs, producing position descriptions, recruiting, selecting, and on-boarding; HR utilization or deploying of existing employees; HR development of existing employees for future jobs; and HR monitoring to determine integration and alignment of individuals to micro-, macro-, and suprasystems. To perform these functions effectively, HR management specialists must cooperate closely with one another and with other functional and operational executives and managers. HR management has also been reinventing itself in order to consult with and assist executive and line managers in creating motivating environments so that employees can satisfy their needs and desires by contributing to the realization of their subsystems’ strategic objectives—that is, becoming the business partners of line managers (Lawler & Mohrman, 2000; Ulrich, 1997; Ulrich et al., 1997). In addition, HR management is tasked with taking the lead in updating and modifying its planning, utilization, development, and monitoring systems to maintain alignment with and to provide appropriate support for the implementation of organizational changes. Without such updating, HR management systems will inappropriately maintain their orientation to their past history even when that orientation no longer serves a functional purpose.

Structure includes: hierarchical architecture; defined positions and roles; established levels of authority, responsibility, and accountability that are appropriate for each hierarchical level; and formal rules, regulations, policies, procedures, and practices. The latter functions are usually placed under HR management, but Freedman (1981–2011) sees them as contributing more to the fundamental purpose of structure—reducing the variability and increasing the predictability of human behavior. There may be an inherent dilemma: the more effective the structure is in serving these two purposes, the less the system members are able to quickly recognize and act on the need to adapt to changing conditions. That is, creativity may be suppressed and innovations may not be forthcoming when they are most needed. All of these structural elements must be continuously monitored and modified as needed to ensure they are aligned with and support any organizational change initiative.

Production is designed and organized around some combination or permutation of three core work processes: projects or “job shops,” production or assembly lines, and continuous process (Woodward, 1965, 1978). Creating outputs usually requires some combination of these three processes. Production requires operational plans for ­human-resource utilization, work flow (value-adding business processes), differentiation of responsibilities, integrative structures and processes for communications and making decisions, means for assessing expected versus actual results, and practices for scanning for unintended consequences and predictable surprises. Further, production requires viable plans for taking corrective and preventive maintenance action for human, fiscal, and physical resources. Lawrence & Lorsch (1967) provided a particularly useful model to guide the diagnostic process towards fully understanding the dynamics involved in production—and in any other supporting operational or functional microsystem.

Technology encompasses both “hard” equipment and “soft” processes and methods that enable organizational members to improve their performance in terms of safety, quality, speed, cost, and reliability. Different types of either hard or soft technologies may be applied in incremental- or radical-change efforts. Porras (1987) provides useful examples of technology. A new hard technology that might be considered soft is “the cloud.” This innovation appears to promise a revolutionary, cost-efficient opportunity to replace expensive system-owned and -maintained computer hardware and software with shared information capacity located off-site that is easily accessible though the Internet. Techspert consultants who specialize in IT or restructuring tend to focus and rely upon the hard technologies, while OD&C practitioners and consulting organizational psychologists also emphasize and incorporate the soft technologies. As is often said, “The soft stuff is the hard stuff.”

Leadership functions ensure that the right things are done. These are most evident at the boundary between a micro- or macrosystem and its external environment. The “right things” include: (1) ensuring that the external environment is constantly scouted and monitored for threats and opportunities; (2) linking external and internal environments; (3) building agreement among stakeholders on strategic imperatives; (4) securing capital resources; (5) coordinating business units’ activities; (6) setting and supporting strategic direction; (7) ensuring the integrity of systemic boundaries; (8) ensuring variance analysis (feedback) is used to establish and maintain fit among organizational elements and alignment between the organization and its stakeholders; and (9) ensuring that corrective and preventive maintenance activities are planned and executed in a timely, high-quality, and cost-effective manner. While leaders can delegate responsibility for implementing incremental changes, they must modify their priorities and take on primary responsibility for leading discontinuous, transformational change. Every operational and functional microsystem in the swamp model is to be understood as having a ring of leadership functions around it.

Management functions ensure that things are done right. These are most evident at the boundary between the production microsystem and all other internal organizational elements. Doing things right includes: (1) producing; (2) implementing (scheduling, coordinating, controlling, and maintaining discipline); (3) innovating; and (4) integrating strategies, risks, goals, and entrepreneurship (Adizes & Borgese, 1975). Management must also: (5) secure all subordinates’ commitment to a common understanding and acceptance of the organization’s vision, mission, and strategic goals; (6) align subordinates’ microsystem objectives with strategic goals; (7) monitor and ensure integration and coordination among the microsystem’s operational and functional microsystems; (8) ensure that variances between actual performance and expected progress and results are fully understood and that effective corrective and preventive measures are enacted; (9) involve employees in identifying the need for, planning, and implementing change; (10) help employees cope with change; (11) provide feedback to executives from customers and employees, and (12) design and revise (in collaboration with HR) then apply relevant, realistic performance-management systems. However, leaders at all organizational levels must perform many management functions in addition to their leadership responsibilities. Therefore, every organizational microsystem and element, and the larger organization itself, should be understood to have a ring of management functions around it.

Culture permeates the entire macrosystem and each of its microsystems. Specific unwritten cultural norms that define acceptable behavior are likely to be different in different microsystems and at different hierarchical levels. Organizational culture must be differentiated from societal culture (Hofstede & Hofstede, 2005). The latter is based on prevailing social values, while the former is derived from organizational practices. Organizational culture encompasses persistent manifestations and influences of the organizational traditions, practices, habits, beliefs, values, precedents, myths, and legends that guide system members’ perceptions, decisions, and actions. While members of an organization may carry their own very different social cultures into their organizations, they are generally induced to conform to the requirements of the macro- or microsystem’s culture. For example, an organization’s cultural norms and values contain pervasive belief systems about the nature of human motivation—theory x or theory y (McGregor, 2006). Individual employees who comply with organizational norms while on the job may or may not behave the same way outside of their job.

Political practices are inevitable aspects of culture. While the positions taken by politically-oriented persons may be overt, their underlying interests are likely to be covert (Marshack, 2005). However, which political dynamics prevail is often a function of the specific intersection of societal and organizational cultural norms.

Culture functions as either an enabling or an inhibiting—or even toxic—mediator and serves as the internal context for all organizational elements. As such, culture affects the operations of all organizational elements and is in turn affected by those elements. Culture may speed or slow the pace of change within any set or subset of system elements. Interestingly, although many have tried, there is no evidence that the nature and quality of an organization’s culture can be directly changed (Hofstede & Hofstede, 2005; Schein, 1985). Rather, changing the nature of and interrelationships among the systemic microsystems and elements may, incrementally, change the culture.

Climate or mood refers to the generalized emotional responses of system members to the current levels of stress, strain, and tension, to the sense of urgency, pace, or tempo of activities (generally in response to more or less temporary external events), and to the prevailing temporary systemic conditions (e.g. crisis, uncertainty, turbulence, fear, exhilaration, or anxiety) within the entire macrosystem and each of its microsystems. The climate is likely to be different in different microsystems and at different hierarchical levels. If culture is like the seasons of the year, climate is like today’s weather. Culture changes slowly, while climate can change quite rapidly.

Output or demand-side boundary-spanning mechanisms include those specialized units that are responsible for delivering the organization’s outputs and byproducts across the lateral interface to their respective appropriate stakeholders. Boundary-spanning unit members: (1) assess customers’ perceptions of the organization’s compliance with mutually-negotiated standards; (2) negotiate with customers to establish procedures to determine their acceptance of the outputs; (3) negotiate the amount and type of decision-making authority for all involved parties; and (4) assess customers’ satisfaction with the organization’s post-sales or post-delivery services. In general, (5) they ensure effective communications between the organization and the demand-side stakeholders. Specifically, they: (6) clarify and negotiate goals and roles; (7) participate in managing and utilizing conflict; (8) clarify and negotiate or renegotiate mutual expectations; (9) negotiate decision-making procedures and strategies; (10) jointly identify and deal with emerging issues; and (11) negotiate commitments and create positive and punitive consequences.

Demand-side stakeholders include clients, customers, or consumers of the organization’s outputs—goods, services, dividends, reports, and byproducts, including waste. These end users may include: (1) regulatory commissions, to which required reports are conveyed; (2) investors, business media, and Wall Street, which require quarterly reports; (3) collectors of market-research data about the organization and its industry; and (4) destination sites for the organization’s byproducts and waste. Outputs vary by their nature, quality, and reliability.

Feedback mechanisms and variance analysis. Feedback on performance is collected from every functional and operational microsystem and delivered to every other microsystem. The feedback focuses not only on the internal operations of each microsystem but also on the interface transactions among microsystems and between the macrosystem and its relevant stakeholders in the external environment. This is especially important for leadership and management. Actual performance is compared with desired or expected performance and specifies: (1) what activities and conditions are functioning well, and where; and (2) what activities and conditions can be improved—including performance gaps and duplication of functions—and where. Variance analysis serves such purposes as: (1) validating the system’s strengths in all of its parts at all levels; (2) identifying dysfunctional or suboptimal performance areas as potential change objectives; (3) identifying the root causes of symptomatic problems; and (4) identifying all microsystems that are affected by current conditions at the primary, secondary, and tertiary levels.

Once the feedback data have been collected, they must be organized. Steve Ruma (1974) created a method for reducing and categorizing the data obtained through the feedback process to enable diagnosticians to make informed judgments as to where—within or between microsystems—to invest scarce resources in order to correct and prevent revealed systemic problems and improve performance (Figure 20.12). The flexible-functional model integrates two significant dimensions in assessing data provided by the feedback. Laterally, the model distinguishes between systemic functions that are either (1) functional and effective or (2) dysfunctional and without useful purpose. Vertically, the model distinguishes between functions that are either (1) inflexible and not amenable to change or (2) flexible and amenable to change. The resulting 2 × 2 matrix yields four categories into which data can be placed and converted into useful information. The four categories are: (I) an area of low anxiety and maximum health, which contains elements that are both functional and effective and amenable to change; (II) an area of natural targets for planned change, which contains elements that are dysfunctional and without useful purpose but are amenable to change; (III) an area of stop-gap measures or functional fixedness, which contains elements that are functional and effective but are not amenable to change; and (IV) an area of organizational disasters, which contains elements that are both dysfunctional and without useful purpose and are not amenable to change.

Figure 20.12 Reducing data: Ruma’s flexible-functional model (1974).

Ruma, S. (1974). A diagnostic model for organizational change: Where the flexible is functional. Social Change, 4 (4).



The flexible-functional model can be applied to data from a macrosystem as a whole, from any microsystem, from the transactions among microsystems, from the interactions between a macrosystem and its external supply-and-demand-side stakeholders, and from vertical relations up and down a system’s hierarchy. Obviously, the problems, opportunities, and dilemmas placed in area 2 would be a logical place from which to start a complex organizational-change effort, since they represent the “low-hanging fruit” that can demonstrate to all involved parties that change is imminent and possible. This strategy also serves as a pilot project and provides leaders with practice opportunities in leading and managing change.

Ruma (1974) points out that: (1) movement from area II to area I is most likely a result of effective planned-change interventions; but (2) lack of maintenance of area-I elements or complacency reduces the possibility of intentional, self-conscious change—the result is that, taken for granted and left to themselves, elements contained in area I will devolve and migrate to area III; and (3) inflexibility with regard to the contents of area III leads to reduced levels of effectiveness and a tendency for those elements to gravitate towards area IV.

Ruma (1974) suggests various interventions to address system elements that have been placed in each category. For example, for elements placed in area IV (i.e. organizational disasters), he suggests that since (1) either those affected by these conditions have no legitimate authority to influence them and/or (2) those with authority are unresponsive to those who feel imposed upon, it is appropriate to (3) treat area-IV conditions as pathogenic and create an impermeable barrier around them to prevent them from contaminating healthier parts of the organization and (4) “starve” area-IV conditions by refraining from making any investment of energy to attempt a corrective intervention, and instead withholding resources, supplies, information, time, and attention.

Lateral-interface transactions. The swamp model, like other comprehensive STS models, is scalable. It can be used to assess the internal operations of organizational units of any size—from an intact team to the entire organization. This range includes any team, department, division, product group, or region. By extension, the swamp model helps us to understand the number and nature of lateral-interface transactions between interdependent systems of any size or level of complexity. The fundamental characteristic of these lateral transactions is that the outputs of subsystem “A” constitute some—but not all—of the essential inputs that subsystem “B” requires to perform its designated functions (see Figure 20.13).

Figure 20.13 Lateral-interface transactions between interdependent subsystems (Freedman, 1978–1980).



Many organizational-change efforts focus exclusively on the dynamics operating internally within an organization’s various microsystems. The swamp model clearly indicates that, when a subsystem is assessed independently, it may be thought to be operating effectively. However, when the patterns of transactions between and among interdependent microsystems are examined, previously-ignored dysfunctions may be revealed. This is seen most clearly in a value or supply chain of interdependent subsystems. Similarly, vertical interactions across hierarchical levels must be assessed to identify what is functional or dysfunctional and what is flexible or not amenable to change.





20.4.13 Characteristics of open STSs


STS models can guide planners in both designing (or redesigning) organizational architecture and making organizational diagnoses of a system’s internal strengths and vulnerabilities relative to multiple discontinuous changes in its relevant environment. STS diagnoses also enable organizational leaders to track symptomatic indicators of problems, opportunities, and dilemmas throughout the system—from the beginning to the end and from the top to the bottom—as they seek to identify both their root causes and their primary, secondary, and tertiary consequences. Based on their assessments, leaders can determine how and in what ways organizational systems constantly evolve, change, and adapt, allowing them to reveal their past and present and to anticipate their probable and possible futures (Porras, 1987; Senge, 1990; Senge et al., 1994).

STS theory consists of a number of propositions about the dynamic nature of organizational systems of any size or type. Collectively, these propositions describe complex systems and how they operate, grow, and survive—or not.

The most fundamental STS proposition is the universal law of entropy: without a constant infusion of energy (i.e. negative entropy), systems inexorably move towards disorganization, decay, and ultimately death. That is, with only positive entropy, systems tend to maintain their equilibrium and replicate their past histories and traditions while their worlds change around them, often passing them by. Thus, they progress along a predictable life-cycle trajectory: birth, infancy, childhood, adolescence, maturity, old age/stagnation, decline, and death. However, with sufficient negative entropy, revitalization is possible at any life-cycle stage. Efforts at renewal are most likely to be accepted by organizational members during declining stages when adverse consequences become evident. Unfortunately, by this time efforts to revitalize the organization may be too little, too late. During their growth stages, when organizations are on a relatively healthy trajectory, leaders tend to be complacent and rarely recognize the need for revitalization.

A second fundamental proposition is that any systemic change will create primary, secondary, and tertiary perturbations that impact all other parts and levels of the STS. Systemic changes may be structural, technological, or procedural. If, for example, a change is technological, Porras (1987) and Germane (1986) point out that related primary changes can be expected. These might include: (1) new tools, equipment, and machinery that employees must learn to operate and which must be purchased and installed; (2) importing and subsequent institutionalization of technical expertise ; (3) design or redesign of jobs, to fit the new demand characteristics of the work and the new KSAs required by employees to operate the new technology; (4) redesign of work flow, since the technology will probably replace some human effort and increase the pace of work; (5) rewriting of technical policies and procedures to maintain alignment with the new capabilities of the new technology; (6) integration of the new technology into existing technical systems; (7) elimination of some existing jobs and laying-off of incumbents; and (8) recruitment, hiring, and integration of qualified employee prospects who have relevant experience and KSAs. Secondary changes would be expected in the goals, relationships, and practices of operational and functional microsystem members who must provide assistance in any of the primary changes. Both primary and secondary changes will inevitably create tertiary changes in the interactions and transactions with members of microsystems that are indirectly affected by them.

The impacts of primary, secondary, and tertiary changes evoke defensive responses that are intended to contain anxiety and maintain the status quo (Levinson, 2002), rather than adapting to changing conditions. A primary cause of this anxiety is the organizational members’ fear that they will not be able to master the new demands that will be made of them. This generally leads to additional anxiety related to job security.

Kuhn (1974) described how all STSs and their microsystems communicate and conduct transactions across their boundaries to perform three core functions that are essential to enabling leaders and managers to deal with the unexpected, unprecedented, discontinuous challenges common during complex systems change: detecting, selecting, and effecting. Detecting relates to communicating information among supra-, macro-, or microsystems. Selecting is determined by the rules and criteria the STS uses to make decisions. Effecting refers to the means through which transactions are made between systems or subsystems.

Carlisle (1981) proposed the following additional descriptions of open STSs. (1) Input–output transactions dominate how open STSs function as they interact with their environments. These transactions constitute vital interdependent relationships between a system and its environmental context. (2) An STS constitutes the whole that is greater than the sum of its individual parts. Relationships are of the greatest importance. (3) Open STSs are typically hierarchical. Thus, relationships to be studied are vertical, lateral, and multidirectional. Perturbations caused by any change ripple upward through levels, sidewise from one subsystem to another, and diagonally across both levels and subsystems. (4) STSs always display some characteristics of the environment in which they operate. Similarly, microsystems always display some of the characteristics of their larger macrosystem. (5) Macrosystems are always more complex than their component microsystems, since they incorporate different kinds of microsystems as well as an increased number and variety of relationships, which result from linking the individual parts. (6) The ways in which an STS manages its boundaries influence how effective it is in its exchanges with its environment. (7) Growth in open STSs always results in increasing differentiation among microsystems and, consequently, complexity. (8) Some built-in conflict exists in all complex open STSs. Individuals, groups, and microsystems always have some purposes or desired outcomes that are at odds with each other, with the larger macrosystem, and with various levels in the organization’s hierarchy. (9) Open-STS theory emphasizes relativism, not absolutes. Thus, equifinality predominates. That is, there are always several different pathways that can lead to a final desired state or goal. (10) The condition of any STS at a given point in time is the result of multiple causes. The variability among the diverse factors that constitute multicausation requires that meaningful analysis be conducted in every situational context.

Keusch (1981) added several more propositions. (1) Organizational charts can convey the erroneous impression that workers on the same hierarchical level work at the same operational or technical level. However, such workers may be engaged in quite different types and levels of work (Jaques, 1989). Further, people that work many hierarchical levels removed from each other may be working at the same operating or technical level. (2) When line managers create and follow strategic plans for their microsystems that are aligned with the plan of the larger organization, they make the organization properly proactive, rather than reactive. (3) Very large complex systems experience wall-building, jurisdictional disputes, empire-building, and deflection of responsibility by the blaming of others.

Organizational leaders and OD&C practitioners should consider these systemic dynamics when analyzing the results of an organizational diagnosis that is intended to define current conditions and to anticipate how incremental and radical organizational changes might affect the macrosystem, its component microsystems, and the interdependent transactions among microsystems, between the macrosystem and its stakeholders in its external environment, and across hierarchical levels. Leaders and OD&C practitioners should also consider how these involved parties might react to and affect the planning and implementation of complex systems changes.





20.5 Conclusions: STS Models and Organizational Diagnosis


An STS approach to organizational diagnosis provides a common language and method for the study of societal and organizational dynamics. Its vocabulary optimizes communication across systems, professional disciplines, and organizational levels. STS theory is a way of looking at the component elements of micro-, macro-, and suprasystems, their vertical, hierarchical relationships, and their interactions with their respective external environments. An STS approach comprises an internally-consistent method of inquiry that can be applied to all social and systemic studies (Walonick, 1993). The major difficulty in applying STS theory is that various STS models contain different elements that reflect the perceptions and biases of their designers. No single model can realistically claim to capture all of the relevant aspects of any system.

Historically, as various organizational theorists and practitioners undoubtedly reflected on their experiences with the early STS models, they crafted increasingly complex models. One might imagine that, as they applied the early models to real situations, theorists and practitioners became increasingly aware of limitations. The major purpose of an STS model is to assist planners of change in organizing the data they collect from and about the systems on which they are focusing. That is, the models help planners to convert raw data into useful information. If the emergent data do not fit the categories of an STS model, critical data may be discarded and ignored—or the model must be modified or replaced. Theorists probably started to add components as they realized that significant data did not have useful discrete categories into which they might fit and so needed new ones. Or they may have broken more general categories into more specific components—a sort of meiotic process. Thus, the more-recent STS models have become increasingly differentiated and the interdependence of components has received greater attention. Over time, theorists created more realistic, complicated, and complex STS models.

No matter how elegant they may be, STS models can be misleading. Once planners of change accept a particular model, they tend to focus only on those elements and interactions that the model specifies; other elements are often ignored or minimized. No STS model is entirely inclusive or comprehensive. For example, the Leavitt (1964) model does not show system boundaries or transactions with the environment; it is a closed rather than an open systems model. Only Porras (1987) and Levinson (2009) focus on the physical setting. Only Porras (1987) and Weisbord (1976) emphasize purpose. Weisbord (1976) does not focus on technology. Nadler & Tushman (1977), Porras (1987), Burke & Litwin (1970–1980), and Freedman (1978–2011) focus on the flow of work from inputs through transformation mechanisms to outputs, but Bridger (1977), Leavitt (1964), and Weisbord (1976) show no such process. Porras (1987), Lawrence & Lorsch (1967), Weisbord (1976), and Burke & Litwin (1970–1980) place individual system members as critical levers of organizational change, while Leavitt (1964) and Bridger (1977) include people as significant factors. Nadler & Tushman (1977), Tichy (1983), Burke & Litwin (1970–1980), Porras (1987), and Freedman (1978–2011) consider organizational culture. Burke & Litwin (1970–1980) and Freedman (1978–2011) also take current organizational climate into consideration. Only Freedman (1978–2011) emphasizes the financial or economic element. Bridger (1977), Burke & Litwin (1970–1980), and Freedman (1978–2011) differentiate between leadership and management, while the others do not. In sum: While they are symbolic maps of an organizational system’s territory, they are not the territory itself. Put another way, while a menu describes the food served in a restaurant, it is not the food itself. So, don’t eat the menu.

It is rather easy for planners of change to focus on the internal operations and dynamics of any microsystem. It is far more complicated—and far more interesting—to focus on the mutual interactions of interdependent functional and operational microsystems and on system–environment/stakeholder interactions. To assure the continuing development of all interdependent microsystems, all involved parties must collaborate in developing and maintaining effective, comprehensive communication across supra-, macro-, and microsystem boundaries—with integrity and authenticity. However, in many organizations, this may be an unrealistic ideal due to political dynamics. All organizational operations and transformations occur within a political context and culture.

Further, planners of change may be tempted to focus primarily or exclusively on some set of symptoms that indicate the presence of organizational problems—especially under crisis conditions. However, comprehensive STS models can best be used to help planners conduct and use a comprehensive diagnosis of the situation to trace the symptoms back to their multiple root causes. By choosing to allow themselves to be satisfied with efforts merely to alleviate the symptoms, planners leave themselves vulnerable to the recurrence of those symptoms or, more often, the emergence of a different manifestation of the same set of root causes (i.e. symptom substitution).





Acknowledgements


I am extremely grateful to Drs Larry Starr and Robert J. Lee for their thoughtful reviews and helpful feedback and recommendations for this chapter.





Notes


1 The term “system” is used to refer to any organization of any size in any location. The term “macro­system” refers to total organizations—a company, a governmental agency, a community. In this chapter, the term is used interchangeably with “total system.” The term “microsystem” refers to any subsystem that is part of the macrosystem—a department, a division, a product or regional group, any functional group such as marketing, production, or research and development. The term is used interchangeably with “­subsystem,” “component part,” and “element.” The term “suprasystem” refers to any entity that comprises two or more cooperating macrosystems—a joint venture.

2 Although “sociotechnical systems” is the accepted term for describing complex open social ­systems, it would be more accurate to use something like “psycho-socio-techno-politico-strategic-structural systems operating in a cultural context.” However, this term seems excessively elaborate.

3 Nadler (1998) distinguishes business strategy from corporate strategy, which he defines as the “­fundamental decisions about what businesses the enterprise wants to be in and [is] typically focuse[d] on portfolio decisions” (p. 30).





References


Ackoff, R.L. & Emery, F.E. (1972). On Purposeful Systems: An Interdisciplinary Analysis of Individual and Social Behavior as a System of Purposeful Events. London: Tavistock Publications.

Ackoff, R.I. (1974). Redesigning the Future. New York: John Wiley & Sons.

Ackoff, R.I. (1981). The art and science of mess management. Interfaces, 11(1), 20–26.

Adizes, I. & Borgese, E.M., editor. (1975). Self-management: New Dimensions to Democracy. Oxford/Santa Barbara: Clio Press.

Alhazen (Ibn Al-Haytham). (1962). Critique of Ptolemy (trans. S. Pines). Actes X Congrès internationale d’histoire des sciences, vol I. Ithaca.

Bazerman, M. & Watkins, M. (2008). Predictable Surprises—The Disasters You Should Have Seen Coming and How to Prevent Them. Boston, MA: Harvard Business School Press.

Bridger, H. (1977). The value of the organization’s own systems in coping with stress. Proceedings of the International Committee on Occupational Mental Health Congress, New York.

Burke, W.W. (2002). Organization Change: Theory and Practice. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage.

Carlisle, H.M. (1981). General systems theory, interdependence, and organization design. In R. Lippitt & G. Lippitt, editors. Systems Thinking—A Resource for Organization Diagnosis and Intervention. Washington, DC: International Consultants Foundation.

Churchman, C.W. (1968). The Systems Approach. New York: Delacorte Press.

Colman, A.D. & Bexton, W.H., editors (1975). Group Relations Reader. Sausalito, CA: GREX.

Colman, A.D. & Geller, M.H., editors (1975). Group Relations Reader 2. Washington, DC: A.K. Rice Institute.

Cummings, T.G. & Srivastva, S. (1977). Management of Work: A Socio-technical Approach. San Diego, CA: University Associates.

Cummings, T.G. (1978). Sociotechnical systems: an intervention strategy. In W.A. Pasmore & J.J. Sherwood. Sociotechnical Systems: A Sourcebook. La Jolla, CA: University Associates. pp. 168–187.

Davis, L.E. & Trist, E.L. (1972). Improving the Quality of Work Life: Experience of the ­Socio-technical Approach. Washington, DC: Work in America, US Department of Health, Education, and Welfare.

Emery, F.E. & Trist, E.L. (1969). STS. In F.E. Emery, editor. Systems Thinking: Selected Readings. London: Penguin Books.

Freedman, A.M. (1997). The undiscussable sides of implementing transformational change. Consulting Psychology Journal, 49(1), 51–76.

Freedman, A.M. (1998). Pathways and crossroads to institutional leadership. Consulting Psychology Journal, 50(3), 131–151. [This article won CPJ’s Elliot Jaques Award for 1998.]

Freedman, A.M. & Zackrison, R.E. (2001). Finding your Way in the Consulting Jungle. San Francisco: Jossey-Bass.

Freedman, A.M. & Jules, C. (2006). Vital signs: a means of assessing an organization’s readiness to change. Unpublished.

Freedman, A.M. & Bradt, K.H. (2009). Consulting Psychology: Selected Articles by Harry Levinson. Washington, DC: American Psychological Association.

Galbraith, J.R. (2002). Designing Organizations: An Executive Guide to Strategy, Structure, and Process. San Francisco: Jossey-Bass.

Galilei, G. (1974). Two New Sciences. Madison, WI: University of Wisconsin Press.

Gergen, K.J. (1999). An Invitation to Social Construction. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage.

Gergen, M. & Gergen, K.J., editors (2003). Social Construction: A Reader. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage.

Germane, G.E. (1986). The Executive Course. Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley.

Gharajedaghi, J. (2011). System Thinking: Managing Chaos and Complexity—A Platform for Designing Business Architecture. Burlington, MA: Elsevier.

Hackman, J.R. (2011). Collaborative Intelligence: Using Teams to Solve Hard Problems. San Francisco: Berrett-Koehler.

Hambrick, D.C. & Fredrickson, J.W. (2005). Are you sure you have a strategy? Academy of Management Executive, 19(4), 51–62.

Herman, S. (2002). Rewiring organizations for the networked economy. San Francisco: Jossey-Bass/Pfeiffer.

Holder, R.J. & McKinney, R.N. (1993). Scouting: a process for dealing with the frontiers of an uncertain world. OD Practitioner, Fall, 20–25.

Hofstede, G. & Hofstede, G.J. (2005). Cultures and Organizations: Software of the Mind. New York: McGraw-Hill.

Jackson, M.C. (2004). Systems Thinking: Creative Holisms for Managers. West Sussex, UK: John Wiley & Sons.

Jaques, E. (1989) Requisite Organization: The CEO’s Guide to Creative Structure and Leadership. Arlington, VA: Cason Hall.

Jayaram, G.K. (1976). Open system planning. In W.G. Bennis, K.D. Benne, R. Chin, & K.E. Corey, editors. The Planning of Change. New York: Holt, Rinehart & Winston. pp. 275–283.

Johnson, B. (1996). Polarity Management: Identifying and Managing Unsolvable Problems. Amherst, MA: HRD Press.

Kahle, L.R., editor. (1979). New Directions for Methodology of Behavioral Science: Methods for Studying Person-Situation Interactions. San Francisco: Jossey-Bass.

Kuhn, A. (1974). The Logic of Social Systems. San Francisco: Jossey-Bass.

Lawler, E.E. III & Mohrman, S.A. (2000). Beyond the Vision: What Makes HR Effective? Los Angeles: University of Southern California.

Leavitt, H.J. (1964). Applied organizational change in industry: structural, technical, and human approaches. In W.W. Cooper, editor. New Perspectives in Organization Research. New York: John Wiley & Sons.

Levinson, H. (1994). The practitioner as diagnostic instrument. In A. Howard and Associates, editors. Diagnosis for Organizational Change: Methods and Models. New York: Guilford Press.

Levinson, H. (2002). Organizational Assessment: A Step-by-Step Guide to Effective Consulting. Washington, DC: American Psychological Association.

Keusch, B. (1981). The applications of systems theory. In R. Lippitt, & G. Lippitt. Systems Thinking—A Resource for Organization Diagnosis and Intervention. Washington, DC: International Consultants Foundation.

Mackenzie, K.D. (1986). Organizational Design: The Organizational Audit and Analysis Technology. Norwood, NJ: Ablex Publishing.

Marshack, R. (2006). Covert Processes at Work: Managing the Five Hidden Dimensions of Organizational Change. San Francisco: Berrett-Koehler.

McGregor, D. (2006). The Human Side of Enterprise, annotated edition. New York: McGraw-Hill.

Miller, E.J., editor (1976). Task and Organization. New York: John Wiley & Sons.

Mohrman, S.A., Cohen, S.G., & Mohrman, A.M. Jr. (1995). Designing Team-based Organization: New Forms of Knowledge Work. San Francisco: Jossey-Bass.

Nadler, D.A. & Tushman, M.L. (1977). A diagnostic model for organization behavior. In J.R. Hackman, E.E. Lawler, & L.W. Porter, editors. Perspectives on Behavior in Organizations. New York: McGraw-Hill. pp. 85–100.

Nadler, D.A., Gerstein, M.S., & Shaw, R.B., editors. (1992). Organizational Architecture: Designs for Changing Organizations. San Francisco: Jossey-Bass.

Nadler, D.A., Shaw, R.B., & Walton, A.E. (1995). Discontinuous Change: Leading Organizational Transformation. San Francisco: Jossey-Bass.

Pache, A-C. (no date). Organizational Responses to Conflicting Institutional Demands. Fontainbleau, France: INSEAD.

Pasmore, W.A. & Sherwood, J.J., editors (1978). Sociotechnical Systems: A Sourcebook. La Jolla, CA: University Associates.

Peters, T. (1987). Thriving on Chaos. Harper Perennial.

Porras, J.I. (1987). Stream Analysis: A Powerful Way to Diagnose and Manage Organizational Change. Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley.

Rice, A.K. (1963). The Enterprise and its Environment. London: Tavistock.

Ruma, S. (1974). A diagnostic model for organizational change: where the flexible is functional. Social Change, 4(4).

Schein, E. (1985). Organizational Culture and Leadership: A Dynamic View. San Francisco: Jossey-Bass.

Senge, P.M. (1990). The Fifth Discipline: The Art & Practice of the Learning Organization. New York: Doubleday/Currency.

Senge, P.M., Roberts, C., Ross, R.B., Smith, B.J., & Kleiner, A. (1994). The Fifth Discipline Fieldbook: Strategies and Tools for Building a Learning Organization. New York: Doubleday/Currency.

Starr, L. (2012). Personal communication.

Tichy, N.M. (1983). Managing Strategic Change: Technical, Political, and Cultural Dynamics. New York: John Wiley & Sons.

Tichy, N.M. (2004). The Cycle of Leadership: How Great Leaders Teach their Companies to Win. New York: HarperCollins.

Trist, E.L., Higgin, G.W., Murray, H., & Pollock, A.B. (1963). Organizational Choice. London: Tavistock.

Trist, E. & Murray, H. (1990). The Social Engagement of Social Science—A Tavistock Anthology: Volume I: The Socio-psychological Perspective. Philadelphia, PA: University of Pennsylvania Press.

Trist, E. & Murray, H. (1993). The Social Engagement of Social Science—A Tavistock Anthology: Volume II: The Socio-technical Perspective. Philadelphia, PA: University of Pennsylvania Press.

Trist, E., Emery, F., & Murray, H. (1997). The Social Engagement of Social Science—A Tavistock Anthology: Volume III: The Socio-ecological Perspective. Philadelphia, PA: University of Pennsylvania Press.

Ulrich, D. (1997). Human Resource Champions. Boston, MA: Harvard Business School Press.

Ulrich, D., Losey, M.R., & Lake, G., editors (1997). Tomorrow’s HR Management. New York: John Wiley & Sons.

Ulrich, H. (1968) Die unternehmung als produktives soziales system. Bern and Stuttgart, Germany: Verlag Paul Haupt.

von Bertalanffy, L. (1950). The theory of open systems in physics and biology. Science, 3, 23–29.

von Bertalanffy, L. (1968). General System Theory: Foundations, Development, Applications. New York: George Braziller.

Walonick, D.S. (1993). General systems theory. Available from statpac.org/walonick/systems-theory.htm.

Weisbord, M.R. (1976). Organizational diagnosis: six places to look for trouble with or without a theory. Group and Organizational Studies, 1, 430–447.

Wiener, N. (1948). Cybernetics: Or Control and Communication in the Animal and the Machine. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.

Woodward, J. (1965). Industrial Organization: Theory and Practice. London: Oxford University Press.

Woodward, J. (1978). Management and technology. In W.A. Pasmore & J.J. Sherwood. STS: A Sourcebook. La Jolla, CA: University Associates. pp. 77–95.

Zobrist, A. & Enggist, R.E. (1984). STS Thinking in Management Consulting: A Holistic Concept for Organization Development. The 1984 Annual: Developing Human Resources. La Jolla, CA: University Associates.





21


Organizational-development Research Interventions: Perspectives from Action Research and Collaborative Management Research


David Coghlan and A.B. (Rami) Shani





21.1 Introduction


At the most basic level, to intervene is to enter into an ongoing system of relationships, to come between or among persons, groups, or objects for the purpose of helping them (Argyris, 1970). An organizational-development (OD) intervention refers to the range of planned, programmatic, and systematic activities intended to help an organization increase its effectiveness (Cummings & Worley, 2009). The process of organizational inquiry is characterized by methods that are based on varied degrees of action and collaboration advanced during the last (and the current) century, each of which seems to emphasize ­distinct scientific, collaborative, or action features (Adler et al., 2004; Coghlan, 2010). A set of interventions that aims at producing knowledge that is robust for scholars and actionable for practitioners may be found in the action modalities of action-research and collaborative-research knowledge streams (Coghlan, 2010; Shani et al., 2008).

In this chapter we take the perspective of OD as action research and collaborative management research and explore how a focus on a collaborative intervention is grounded in an insight into what is required and what any particular OD research intervention ­contributes (Coghlan, 2010). The chapter is structured as follows. First, we ground the issue of selecting an intervention in two foundational processes: action research and collaborative management research as exemplars of OD theory and practice and a general empirical method that is based on the operations of human knowing. Second, we explore several typologies of clustering OD interventions in terms of the two foundational processes. Our aim is to provide both a systematic overview of OD research interventions and a philosophical grounding of what these interventions do and how they might be selected within the theory and practice of OD in order that OD researchers may have a verifiable foundation for understanding and selecting appropriate research interventions.





21.2 Foundations


The collaborative- and action-research orientations are based on a specific world view (ontology), an epistemology that expresses how we seek to know (the theory of knowledge), and methodologies that articulate the approach that is being adopted for inquiry (Coghlan, 2011).





21.2.1 Action research and collaborative management research


Action research is one of the distinctive features of OD and its tap root was Lewin’s seminal work (Boje et al., 2012; Coghlan, 2012; Coghlan & Shani, 2010; Schein, 1989). Lewin was able to combine the methodology of experimentation with solid theory and a concern for action around important social concerns. Action research in OD is captured by the following definition:

… an emergent inquiry process in which applied behavioral science knowledge is integrated with existing organizational knowledge and applied to solve real organizational problems. It is simultaneously concerned with bringing about change in organizations, in developing self-help competencies in organizational members and in adding to scientific knowledge. Finally it is an evolving process that is undertaken in a spirit of collaboration and co-inquiry (Shani and Pasmore, 1985, p. 439).

From this definition it can be understood that action research is an emergent inquiry ­process that engages in an unfolding story, where data shift as a consequence of intervention and where it is not possible to predict or to control what takes place. It focuses on real organizational problems or issues, rather than issues created particularly for the purposes of research. It operates in the people-in-systems domain and applied behavioral science knowledge is both engaged in and drawn upon. Its distinctive characteristic is that it addresses the twin tasks of bringing about change in organizations and generating robust, actionable knowledge, in an evolving process that is undertaken in a spirit of collaboration and co-inquiry, whereby research is constructed with people, rather than on or for them.

In the view of Pasmore and his colleagues, collaborative management research may be defined as:

… an effort by two or more parties, at least one of whom is a member of an organization or system under study and at least one of whom is an external researcher, to work together in learning about how the behavior of managers, management methods, or organizational arrangements affect outcomes in the system or systems under study, using methods that are scientifically based and intended to reduce the likelihood of drawing false conclusions from the data collected, with the intent of both proving performance of the system and adding to the broader body of knowledge in the field of management (Pasmore et al., 2008, p. 20).

As such, collaborative management research is research that occurs in a natural setting within a specific business and industry context, involves true collaboration between ­practitioners and researchers, addresses an emerging specific issue of concern, uses ­multiple methodologies that are scientific, involves the creation of a learning system via the establishment of learning mechanisms, improves the system performance, and adds to the scientific body of knowledge in the field of management.

A comparative examination between these approaches reveals that both are focused on developing a deeper level of understanding of an important issue for both the system studied and the scientific community, in order to identify, modify, and transform the studied system. Both share the concern for the inquiry process and scientific rigor and both ­provide added value to management science.





21.2.2 Dialogic OD


In this section we discuss the construct of “dialogic” OD and how action research and collaborative management research may be exemplars of contemporary OD theory and practice.

Bushe & Marshak (2009) explore the emergence of new forms of OD in the ­postmodern world. They describe classical OD as “diagnostic OD,” where reality is an objective fact and diagnosis involves collecting and applying data and using objective problem-solving methods to achieve change, leading to an articulated desired future. As an alternative, they propose what they call “dialogic OD,” where organizations are viewed as meaning-making systems, containing multiple realities, which are socially constructed. Diagnostic OD is grounded in classical science and modernist philosophy and thought, and views organizations as living systems. In contrast, dialogic OD is influenced by the new sciences and ­postmodern thought and philosophy, and views organizations as meaning-making systems. Accordingly, dialogic OD views reality as socially constructed, with multiple ­realities that are socially negotiated rather than a single objective reality that is diagnosed. Data collection is less about applying objective problem-solving methods and more about raising collective awareness and generating new possibilities that lead to change. Accordingly, the focus of OD is on creating the space for changing the conversation. In sum, dialogic OD emphasizes changing the conversation in organizations by surfacing, legitimating, and learning from multiple perspectives and generating new images and ­narratives on which people can act.

Action research and collaborative management research, as presented here, may be understood as exemplars of contemporary dialogic OD. As we have described, both are foundational approaches in OD, whereby OD scholars and practitioners work together in learning about how the behavior of managers and employees, management methods, and organizational arrangements affect outcomes in the system under study. They use methods that are scientifically based and attempt to reduce the likelihood of drawing false conclusions from the collected data. The intent is to improve the performance of the system and add to the broader body of knowledge in the field of management (Coghlan, 2011, 2012; Mohrman et al., 2011; Shani et al., 2008). Both action research and collaborative management research meet the criteria of mode-2 knowledge production, which is inter- or transdisciplinary, is carried out in the context of concrete application, and is characterized by heterogeneity. In contrast to mode-1 research, which is characterized by explanatory knowledge generated in a disciplinary context, which in Gibbons et al.’s (1994) words is for many “identical with what is meant by science” (p. 3), mode 2 includes a wider, more temporary and heterogeneous set of practitioners collaborating on a problem defined in a specific and localized context, who are socially accountable and reflexive (MacLean et al., 2002).

Table 21.1 The general empirical method in OD.

General empirical method Questions

Be attentive to experience What is the experience of the system?

What is going on?

What opportunities/problems are presenting?

Be intelligent in understanding What insights into the experience do we have concerning:1. the gap between actual and desired organizational state?

2. the congruence among relevant organizational characteristics?





Whose insights are different (CEO, Exec Team, other members)?

Be reasonable in judging Is it so?

Does it fit the evidence?





21.2.3 A general empirical method


Human knowing comprises an invariant series of distinct operations: experiencing, understanding, and judging (Dewey, 1933; Lonergan, 1992; Meynell, 1998). In the context of OD, an organization and its members experience how the organization is functioning with respect to its engagement with its environment and its internal functioning. They seek insight into what that experience may mean and, through engagement with the OD researcher, explore multiple insights or understandings so as to form judgments as to which fit the evidence and thus take action to improve or transform the organization.

From the cognitional operations of experience, understanding, and judgment, a general empirical method that is simply the enactment of operations of human knowing may be derived (Coghlan, 2010). This method is grounded in:

Attention to data of sense and of consciousness (experience).

Exploring intelligently to envisage possible explanations of these data (understanding).

Judging soundly, preferring as probable or certain the explanations that provide the best account for the data (judgment).



Engaging this method requires the disposition to perform the operations of attentiveness, intelligence, and reasonableness, to which, when we seek to take action, is added responsibility (Table 21.1).

A word about method, particularly as the term tends to have connotations of being applied in a mechanistic and disembodied manner. We might distinguish between a method and a recipe; the latter delivers another instance of the same product. A method is not a set of rules to be followed meticulously. The key to method is the relationship between questioning and answering; it is a framework for collaborative creativity that deals with different kinds of question, each with its own focus. So questions for understanding specific data (What is happening here?) have a different focus from questions for reflection (Does this fit?) or from questions of responsibility (What ought I do?).

Porras & Robertson (1987) view the decision regarding which intervention to use as a stage process: first the selection of a feasible intervention set and then the selection of a particular intervention. The first stage, a broad set of potentially appropriate interventions, can be delineated by consideration of the general problem areas of organizational variables targeted for change. They classify the criteria into two general approaches: (1) the gap between actual and desired organizational states; and (2) the congruence among relevant organizational characteristics. In the second stage, change agents select the particular intervention(s) to be used. The criteria to be used in the second stage are clustered into three groups: readiness of the target system, leverage points, and the skills of the change agent.

To summarize this section, selecting an appropriate research intervention involves two processes. First, there is the collaborative process between OD researchers and organizational practitioners in the mode of “dialogic OD” (Bushe & Marshak, 2009) and action research and collaborative management research (Coghlan, 2011; Shani et al., 2008). Second, there is the method they use in assessing the experiences that lead to OD intervention and theory generation. The general empirical method provides an epistemological foundation for engaging with Porras & Robertson’s (1987) selection process. When OD researchers and practitioners attend to organizational experiences, converse together in an attempt to understand, and construct shared meanings (however provisional) from which appropriate OD research interventions may be selected and implemented, they are enacting in the general empirical method.





21.3 Clustering OD interventions


In the earlier days of OD, the suite of interventions available to OD researchers and practitioners was referred to as the “technologies of OD” (Burke, 1982; Burke & Hornstein, 1972). Contemporary scholarly OD books and textbooks no longer use this term. Rather they refer to “OD interventions” or “clustering OD interventions” (e.g. Coghlan & Shani, 2010; Cummings, 2008). Many different ways of clustering the wide range of interventions have been developed in the field over the past 60 years. As a consequence, many different ways of clustering intervention have been advanced in the OD literature.

There is little consensus as to how OD interventions may be clustered. Friedlander & Brown (1974) clustered OD interventions into sociotechnical approaches and human-process approaches, a framework that evolved to include human-resource and strategic approaches (Cummings, 2008; Cummings & Worley, 2009). A parallel framework emphasizes the focus on the primary target of the intervention: individuals, dyad/triads, teams and groups, intergroup relations, and the total organization (French & Bell, 1999). This framework may be incorporated into Cumming’s framework, as some individual interventions may be classified as human processes, others as human-resource interventions. Coghlan and Rashford (Coghlan & Rashford, 2006; Rashford & Coghlan, 1994) ­incorporated interlevel dynamics into levels of analysis as the focus for intervention. ­Ackerman (1986) identified three clusters of interventions based on the intervention ­process: developmental—the improvement of skills, methods, or conditions that for some reason are missing or needed; transitional—an OD program that is introduced to help the system construct a clear vision of what the organization aims to become; and transformational—radical change that requires a belief in and awareness of what is possible and necessary without a clear vision of what the final outcome will look like.

Fourteen “families” of OD interventions based on activities were advanced by French & Bell (1999): diagnostic activities, team-building activities, intergroup activities, survey-­feedback activities, education and training activities, technostructural or ­structural activities, process-consultation activities, grid-organizational development ­activities, third-party peacemaking activities, coaching and counseling activities, life- and ­career-planning activities, planning and goal-setting activities, strategic planning activities, and organizational transformation activities. Blake & Mouton (1964) clustered OD interventions based on the underlying causal mechanisms: discrepancy intervention, theory intervention, procedural intervention, relationship intervention, experimentation intervention, dilemma intervention, perspective intervention, organization-structure intervention, and culture intervention. A set of four clusters of interventions that was based on action levers was advanced and labeled as: structural action levers, human-resources action leavers, technological action levers, and ­total-quality-management (TQM) action levers (Macy & Izumi, 1993). Mitki et al. (2000) identified three hybrid clusters based on the focus and the issue of the intervention (i.e. limited, focused, and holistic). Buono & Kerber (2008) differentiated between directed change, planned change, and guided changing interventions. Directed change is where there are tightly defined goals and leadership directs and commands. Planned change is where there is a clear goal and vision of the future and leadership devises a roadmap to reach it and ­influences how it is reached. Guided changing is where the direction is loosely defined and leadership points the way and keeps watch over the process. Beer & Nohria (2000) identified two ­clusters based on the intended outcomes: interventions that focus on economic results (the “E”) and those that focus on developing capabilities (the “O”).

Table 21.2 Alternative clustering of OD interventions.





We are adopting Mitki et al.’s (2000) classification as our foundational framework, into which we integrate Ackerman’s (1986) and Buono & Kerber’s (2008) frameworks (­Table 21.2). Underpinning this approach is the assumption that selecting an OD technology is context- and issue-based, and is the fruit of the action-research and collaborative-management-research processes.

As Table 21.2 demonstrates, a holistic-change program is one that seeks to address simultaneously all aspect of the organization and so accords with both Ackerman’s (1986) notion of “transformational” and Buono & Kerber’s (2008) “guided changing” approach. Focused-change programs are those which identify a few key aspects of the organization, use these as levers for changing the organization system-wide, accord with being transitional, and follow a directed- or planned-change approach. Limited programs are designed to address a specific issue that is not seen as a lever for a broader change. They accord with being developmental and follow a directed- or planned-change approach.





21.3.1 Holistic programs


Holistic programs are intentionally aimed at simultaneously addressing all (or most) aspects of the organization and entirely transforming it. These OD programs follow a system-wide perspective and tend to incorporate many elements within and outside the organization boundaries in the process. Due to the complexity of the system-wide interventions, internal and external practitioners tend to partner with one another in ­facilitating the process.

Examples of OD interventions in this category include: Grid OD, or change by design as it was later called (Blake & Mouton, 1969; Blake et al., 1989), System 4 (Likert, 1967), strategic fitness profiling (Beer, 2011; Fredberg et al., 2011), sociotechnical systems (STSs) (Felton & Taylor, 1994; Eijnhaten et al., 2008; Pasmore, 1988), large-group methods, such as search conference, future search, world cafe, and democratic dialogue (Bunker & Alban, 2005; Emery & Purser, 1996; Gustavsen, 1992; Holman et al., 2007; Lifvergren et al., 2011; Polanyi, 2001; Weber & Manning, 1998), collateral organization (Zand, 1974), parallel-learning structures (Bushe & Shani, 1990, 1991), appreciative inquiry (Bushe & Kassam, 2005; Reed, 2007), organizational-culture transformation (Cameron, 2008; ­Heracleous, 2007; Schein, 2010), organizational learning (Argyris, 1995; Lundberg, 1989; Mohrman & Mohrman, 1997; Sackmann et al., 2009; Shani & Docherty, 2004), sustainability development (Armenakis et al., 1999; Shani et al., 2010; Worley & Parker, 2011; Zandee, 2011), stream-analysis intervention (Porras, 1987), IT-enabled change (Barrett et al., 2006; Hussain & Hafeez, 2007; McDonagh & Coghlan, 2006), mergers and acquisitions (Auster & Sirower, 2002; Chreim, 2007; Kovoor-Misra, & Smith, 2007; ­Marmenout, 2010; Meyer, 2006; Seo, 2005; Zhou & Canella, 2008), transformation ­(Bartunek & Louis, 1988), transorganizational development intervention or interorganizational ­collaboration and networks (Coughlan & Coghlan, 2011; Cummings, 1984; Mohrman et al., 2003; Vangen & Huxham, 2003), and design-science approach (Bate, 2007).

There are many holistic interventions, a number of which would not be traditionally classified as OD—business-process reengineering being a clear example. As OD has developed, it has learned to work with non-OD interventions, and so in this section we include references that bring an OD perspective to these interventions. For example, Taylor (1998) presents an integrative OD change program that pulls together STSs, business-process reengineering, and SAP into one coherent system-wide intervention. Stebbins et al. (1998) describe a business-process reengineering blueprint that integrated a hybrid of change initiatives.





21.3.2 Focused programs


Focused programs are ones that identify a few key aspects, such as time, quality, and customer value, and then use them, by design, as levers for changing the organization system-wide. The OD focused programs tend to integrate specific content-knowledge expertise (such as quality or quality-improvement experts) in the intervention process, seem to be facilitated by a combined team of internal and external practitioners, and require a combined technical and system-wide knowledge. The nature of the focused OD programs is such that in order for the intervention to serve as a trigger for a system-wide change at a later stage, it is critical to invest in building trusting relationships and legitimacy, and demonstrate the intervention’s added value as the change effort develops. This is because the effectiveness of the inquiry and intervention is likely to be based on a collaborative relationship between researchers and managers, in which the status and expertise of the manager and the research expertise of the researcher need to be complementary and in harmony. This does not happen without effort.

Examples of OD interventions in this category are: job restructuring (Tichy & ­Nisberg, 1976), management by objectives (French & Hollmann, 1975), self-designing organizations (Cummings & Mohrman, 1987), reward systems (Lawler, 1987), ­continuous improvement (Lillkrank et al., 1998), high-performance work systems and self-directed teams (Macy et al., 2007), competency-based human-resource management (Boyatzis, 1996), executive leadership development (Bass & Avioli, 1990; Torbert, 1989), TQM (Coyle-Shapiro, 1999, 2002), and quality working life (QWL) (Cummings & Mohrman, 1987; Levin & Gottlieb, 1993; Pasmore, 1988).

OD interventions in this category play a critical role in many organizations which for a variety of factors are not ready to face a system-wide change effort. As such, they are often crucial in the development of readiness for a system-wide change effort (holistic program). The key aspect(s) that the intervention focuses on carries a major symbolic value as it triggers the process of reframing the issues, challenges, and organizational learning. The OD activities, phases, and mechanisms that are established during the focused-program process often serve to guide and/or launch the holistic program.





21.3.3 Limited programs


Limited OD programs are not aimed at affecting broader aspects of the organization. By design they address a specific problem that is not seen as a lever for broader change, but may help build a foundation for broader change at a later date. The basic logic for limited OD programs is the need to address and solve a specific issue, such as individual career progression, conflict resolution, job boredom, employee wellness, or a communication problem. The intervention has a clear purpose and time frame, delineated activities, phases, a beginning, and an end.

Examples of OD interventions in this category include: career development (Hall & Morgan, 1977), stress management (Ivancevich et al., 1990), confrontation meeting (Beckhard, 1967), role negotiation, (Harrison, 1972), conflict management (Walton, 1987), employee fitness and wellness (Gebhardt & Crump, 1990), work–life balance (Caproni, 2004; Reiter, 2007), employees and jobs (Hornung, & Rousseau, 2007; ­Grunberg et al., 2008; Jimmieson et al., 2008; Miller & Robinson, 2004; Shperling & Shiron, 2005), team building (Bushe & Coetzer, 2007; Edmondson, 2004; Wageman et al., 2005), and mentoring and coaching (Chandler & Kram, 2007; Kram, 1985).





21.3.4 OD programs and the general empirical method


In approaching OD research interventions, we apply the general empirical method (Table 21.3). While it may appear somewhat simple, it is not so. Attending to experience, articulating the meaning of that experience, and coming to judgment in an organization is a complex process, as different experiences exist and there are different perspectives on what these experiences might mean and what might be done. OD researchers engage the parties in the conversation in an attempt to construct and articulate the organization’s current state and desired future state. These conversations are initiated by the person who invites the OD researchers into the organization and progress through the organization as the CEO and researchers co-design and co-implement the research.

For illustration purposes, an STS intervention as a holistic OD program includes specific activities and phases that by design address all three areas of the general empirical method. The intervention provides an opportunity for organizational members to focus on their everyday work experience and share the experience with others in a purposefully created study group, with the intent of creating shared meaning or understanding current ­work-related dynamics, processes, and outcomes. This new understanding leads to the identification of central issues that need to be addressed and the exploration of alternative possible OD interventions that might help address the emerging issue. Thus, a judgment call is made about the specific intervention to pursue. Study teams will be created to focus on the understanding of the social, technical, and environmental subsystems of the organization. Scientific methods will be used to collect and interpret data. Based on the shared interpretation of the data, new understanding is achieved and specific ideas for change are generated. The ideas are shared with top management and, based on the identification of relevant criteria, decisions are made on specific change implementations. As such, STS follows the general empirical method described above.

Table 21.3 An overview of OD interventions.





Collaborative efforts to understand collective experiences and to create action on the basis of that understanding may find expression within some of the action modalities that make up the broad field of action research and collaborative management research ­(Coghlan, 2010). For example, if an organization has a practice of using action learning as a key ­mechanism for problem solving and management development, this practice may be ­leveraged for OD research. This is because action learning is built around: (1) addressing problems (by which is meant an issue that has no single solution and has advocates who understand the problem differently); (2) a diverse group of peers who explore the problem together in (3) a reflective manner based on experience, with a commitment to both (4) action and (5) learning, with (6) the help of a learning coach (Marquardt et al., 2009). Accordingly, an organization with such a practice is already attuned to the practices of ­collaborative inquiry and action learning and may readily be realigned to a collaborative-research approach, with the OD researcher acting as the learning coach (Coughlan & Coghlan, 2011). Similarly, a clinical inquiry/research approach facilitates shared inquiry into organizational dysfunctions, so as to generate insight into how they occur and action strategies to deal with them (Coghlan, 2009; Schein, 2008). These examples are illustrative of how specific orientations within the broad field of collaborative research may be engaged in the selection and implementation of OD research interventions.





21.4 Discussion and future research


The clustering of the OD research interventions presented above is anchored in the ­general empirical method of human knowing and collaborative research. The perspective taken in this chapter, as we have seen, differs from the traditional and previously articulated typologies of OD intervention clustering. Instead of clustering the OD interventions based on human versus technostructure approaches (Friedlander & Brown, 1974) or a developmental-process focus (Ackerman, 1986), target focus (French & Bell, 1999), change-orientation focus (Buono & Kerber, 2008), or outcome focus (Beer & Nohria, 2000), we adopted the hybrid of issue, change orientation, and target perspective proposed by Mitki et al. (2000). Coupling the hybrid-based clustering with the action-research and collaborative-research orientation presents unique opportunities and a set of challenges that can benefit from future research.





21.4.1 Interweaving “dialogical” and “collaborative research” orientations in OD work


Considerable research in the field of OD has identified many barriers as major problems in OD work. For example, Beer & Eisenstat (2000) identified “six silent killers”: unclear strategy and values and conflicting priorities; an ineffective senior-management team; a top-down or laissez-faire leader; poor coordination and communication across functions, businesses, or geographic entities; inadequate leadership development and leadership resources below the top; and poor vertical communication. The challenge from an OD perspective is how to begin an open dialogue that will lead to an appropriate choice of OD intervention. The “dialogical OD” view of reality is socially constructed, where there are multiple views of reality in an organization. This suggests the need to collaborate systematically on the creation of a common meaning on the basis of which joint action may be taken. Action research and the collaborative-management-research orientation provide the mechanisms for such a process.

Organizational development through action research and collaborative management research is viewed as an effort by two or more parties, at least one of which is a member of the organization or system under study and at least one of which is an external researcher, who work together in learning about an issue of shared importance, using methods that are scientifically based and intended to reduce the likelihood of drawing false conclusions from the data collected (Pasmore et al., 2008). Thus, adopting the action-research and ­collaborative-management-research orientation is likely to enhance the process of creating a shared meaning for the issue at hand. Furthermore, the more accurate the data collected, the more individuals are involved in the creation of a shared meaning for the data, and the more the collective is involved in the exploration of possible OD interventions, the greater the likelihood that the chosen OD intervention will be the most appropriate for the system.





21.4.2 The hybrid clustering of OD interventions


The OD literature, as we have seen, encompasses a wide variety of OD interventions, ­clustered in different ways, each based on its own rationale. The clustering logic advanced in this chapter is based on a hybrid of identified issue, general change orientation, and target or level, in order to address both an organization’s capability development and its economic performance. The underlying premises of OD work advanced in this chapter and the striving for the enhancement of human knowing suggest that the proposed clustering of OD interventions should be treated as a broad platform for dialogue and not as a rigid template for action.

The emerging dialogical orientation in OD work provides an opportunity to develop a shared understanding of the need for change, an opportunity to identify and choose the most appropriate way to frame the change, an opportunity to choose the most appropriate OD intervention, and an opportunity to design for a sustainable change (Pasmore, 2011). From a research perspective, the opportunities to generate robust scientific knowledge are promising, as many layers of intriguing questions can be investigated. For example, we need to investigate the appropriateness and relevance of the different ways of clustering OD interventions. We need to know more about the possible causal relationship between the dialogical process, the generation of shared meaning, and the success of a chosen intervention. We also need to know more about the specific role that situational factors play in impacting the dialogical process and in determining OD-intervention success.





21.4.3 Challenges for the OD researcher


Facilitating the dialogical process and collaborative research in OD work suggests that the OD researchers or scholarly practitioners are embedded in the art and science of action-research and collaborative-management-research philosophies, approaches, and methodologies. At the center of action research, collaborative management research and the dialogical process is a set of activities that triggers the development of a community of inquiry as a way of engaging in developing new understanding (Coghlan & Shani, 2008). Such a community does not stand alone; rather, it is part of a web of internal and external networks, as the OD researcher is a member of several OD research networks and the managers are members of their own networks. The quality of the community of inquiry is likely to impact the effectiveness of the production of new knowledge that is both relevant to practice and of added scientific value.

The need to produce collaborative research that is rigorous, reflective, and relevant is critical (Woodman et al., 2008). Coupling the notions of community of inquiry, collaborative research, dialogical OD, and OD interventions provides an opportunity to explore a wide variety of research questions. For example, if rigor is viewed as upholding the ­standards of scientific proof in assessing the impact of a specific organizational issue on performance, we need to learn more about how can we develop this insight while using a dialogical process that is embedded in scientifically generated data, data analysis, and data interpretation. If reflection is viewed as the process of jointly and collectively creating new insights and theories by referring to the related work of others, we need to learn more about the situational factors that might impact the quality of reflection and about the design choices of the dialogical process that might facilitate the creation of the most appropriate context for that reflection. Finally, if we view relevance as addressing an important organizational issue, we need to learn more about how to create a psychological safety net such that organizational members from different levels in the organizational hierarchy can have an honest dialogue about issues, about the role that the OD practitioner can play in facilitating such dialogue, and about the learning mechanisms that can be designed to enhance the quality of the dialogue.





21.5 Conclusions


In this chapter we have taken the perspective of OD as action research and collaborative management research and explored how a focus on a collaborative intervention is grounded in an insight into what is required and what any particular OD technology contributes. In our view, selecting an intervention is grounded in two foundational processes: action research and collaborative management research, as exemplars of OD theory and practice and a general empirical method that is based on the operations of human knowing. It is from this foundation that engagment with intervention clusters is based. While we selected one particular clustering that, for us, provides the richest exploitation of the literature, it is our view that the essential element of cluster selection emerges from the collaborative engagement between OD researchers and practitioners. Our aim has been to provide both a systematic overview of OD research interventions and a philosophical grounding for what these interventions do and how they might be selected within the theory and practice of OD in order for OD researchers to have a verifiable foundation for understanding and selecting an appropriate research intervention.





References


Ackerman, L. (1986). Development, transition, or transformation: the question of change in organizations. OD Practitioner, December, 1–8.

Adler, N., Shani, A.B. (Rami), & Styhre A. (2004). Collaborative Research in Organizations. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage.

Argyris, C. (1970). Intervention Theory and Method. Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley.

Argyris, C. (1995). Action science and organizational learning. Journal of Managerial Psychology, 10(6), 20–26.

Armenakis, A.A., Harris, S.G., & Feild, H.S. (1999). Making change permanent: a model for institutionalizing change interventions. In R.W. Woodman & W.A. Pasmore, editors. Research in Organizational Change and Development, vol. 12. Greenwich, CT: JAI Press. pp. 97–128.

Auster, E.R. & Sirower, M.L. (2002). The dynamics of mergers and acquisitions. Journal of Applied Behavioral Science, 38(2), 216–244.

Barrett, M., Grant, D., & Wailes, N. (2006). ICT and organizational change. Special Issue Journal of Applied Behavioral Science, 42(1).

Bartunek, J.M. & Louis, M.R. (1988). The interplay of organization development and organizational transformation. In R.W. Woodman & W.A. Pasmore, editors. Research in Organizational Change and Development, vol. 2. Greenwich, CT: JAI Press. pp. 97–134.

Bass, B.M. & Avolio, B.J. (1990). The implications of transactional and transformational leadership for individual, team, and organizational development. In R.W. Woodman & W.A. Pasmore, ­editors. Research in Organizational Change and Development, vol. 4. Greenwich, CT: JAI Press. pp. 231–272.

Bate, P. (2007). Bringing the design sciences to organization development and change and change management. Special Issue, Journal of Applied Behavioral Science, 43(1).

Beckhard, R. (1967). The confrontation meeting. Harvard Business Review, 45(2), 149–155.

Beer, M. (2011). Developing an effective organization: intervention, method, empirical evidence and theory. In A.B. (Rami) Shani, R.W. Woodman, & W.A. Pasmore, editors. Research in Organizational Change and Development, vol. 19. Bingley, UK: Emerald. pp. 1–54.

Beer, M. & Eisenstat, R. (2000). The silent killers of strategy implementation and learning. Sloan Management Review, Summer, 82–89.

Beer M. & Nohria, N. (2000). Cracking the code of change. Harvard Business Review, 78(3), 133–141.

Blake R.R. & Mouton, J.S. (1964). The Managerial Grid. Houston: Gulf.

Blake, R.R. & Mouton, J.S. (1969). Building a Dynamic Corporation through Grid Organization Development. Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley.

Blake, R.R., Mouton, J.S., & McCanse, A. (1989). Change by Design. Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley.

Boje, D., Burnes, B., & Hassard, J. (2012). The Routledge Companion to Change. Abingdon, UK: Routledge.

Boyatzis, R.E. (1996). Consequences and rejuvenation of competency-based human resource and organization development. In R.W. Woodman & W.A. Pasmore, editors. Research in Organizational Change and Development, vol. 9. Greenwich, CT: JAI Press. pp. 101–122.

Bunker, B.B. & Alban, B. (2005). Large group interventions. Special Issue, Journal of Applied Behavioral Science, 41(1).

Buono, A.F. & Kerber, K.W. (2008). The challenge of organizational change: enhancing organizational change capacity. Revue Sciences de Gestion, 65, 99–118.

Burke, W.W. (1982). Organization Development: Principles and Practices. Boston, MA: Little, Brown.

Burke, W.W. & Hornstein, H. (1972). The Social Technology of Organization Development. Fairfax, VA: NTL Resources.

Bushe, G.R. & Kassam, A.F. (2005). When is Appreciative Inquiry Transformational? A Meta-analysis. Journal of Applied Behavioral Science, 41(2), 161–181.

Bushe, G.R. & Coetzer, G.H. (2007). Group development and team effectiveness: using cognitive representations to measure group development and predict tasks performance and group ­viability. Journal of Applied Behavioral Science, 43(2), 184–212.

Bushe, G.R. & Marshak, R. (2009). Revisioning organization development: diagnostic and dialogic premises and patterns of practice. Journal of Applied Behavioral Science, 45(3), 248–268.

Bushe, G. & Shani, A.B. (Rami) (1990). Parallel learning structure interventions in bureaucratic organizations. In R.W Woodman & W.A. Pasmore, editors. Research in Organizational Change and Development, vol. 4. Greenwich, CT: JAI Press. pp. 167–194.

Cameron, K. (2008). A process for changing organization culture. In T.G. Cummings, editor. Handbook of Organization Development. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage. pp. 429–446.

Caproni, P.J. (2004). Work/life balance: you can’t get there from here. Journal of Applied Behavioral Science, 40(2), 208–218.

Chandler, D.E. & Kram, K.E. (2007). Reconceptualizing mentoring at work: a developmental network perspective. In H.P. Gunz & M.A. Peiperl, editors. Handbook of Career Studies. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage.

Chreim, S. (2007). Social and temporary influence on interpretations of organizational identity and acquisition integration. Journal of Applied Behavioral Science, 43(4), 449–480.

Coghlan, D. (2009). Toward a philosophy of clinical inquiry/research. Journal of Applied Behavioral Science, 45(1), 106–121.

Coghlan, D. (2010). Seeking common ground in the diversity and diffusion of action research and collaborative management research action modalities: toward a general empirical method. In W.A. Pasmore, A.B. (Rami) Shani, & R. Woodman, editors. Research in Organization Change and Development, vol. 18. Brinkley, UK: Emerald. pp. 149–181.

Coghlan, D. (2011). Action research: exploring perspectives on a philosophy of practical knowing. Academy of Management Annals, 5(1), 53–87.

Coghlan, D. (2012). Organization development and action research: then and now. In D. Boje, B. Burnes, & J. Hassard, editors. The Routledge Companion to Change. Abingdon, UK: Routledge. pp. 357–367.

Coghlan, D. & Rashford, N.S. (2006). Organization Change and Strategy: An Interlevel Dynamics Approach. New York: Routledge.

Coghlan, D. & Shani, A.B. (Rami). (2008). Collaborative Management Research through Communities of Inquiry. In A.B. (Rami) Shani, S.A. Mohrman, W.A. Pasmore, B. Stymne, & N. Adler. Handbook of Collaborative Management Research. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage. pp. 601–614.

Coghlan, D. & Shani, A.B. (Rami), editors. (2010). Fundamentals of Organization Development, four volumes. London: Sage.

Coughlan, P. & Coghlan, D. (2011). Collaborative Strategic Improvement through Network Action Learning. Cheltenham, UK: Edward Elgar.

Coyle-Shapiro, J.A.-M. (1999). TQM and organizational change: a longitudinal study of the impact of a TQM intervention on work attitudes. In R.W. Woodman & W.A. Pasmore, editors. Research in Organizational Change and Development, vol. 12. Greenwich, CT: JAI Press. pp. 129–170.

Coyle-Shapiro, J.A.-M. (2002). Changing employee attitudes: the independent effects of TQM and profit sharing on continuous improvement orientation. Journal of Applied Behavioral Science, 38(1), 57–77.

Cummings, T.G. (1984). Transorganization development. In B. Staw & L. Cummings, editors. Research in Organization Behavior, vol. 5. Greenwich, CT: JAI Press. pp. 367–422.

Cummings, T.G. (2008). Handbook of Organization Development. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage.

Cummings, T.G. & Mohrman, S.A. (1987). Self designing organizations: towards imple­menting quality-of-work-life innovations. In R.W. Woodman & W.A. Pasmore, editors. Research in Organizational Change and Development, vol. 1. Greenwich, CT: JAI Press. pp. 275–310.

Cummings, T.G. & Worley, C.G. (2009). Organization Development and Change, 9th edition. Cincinnati, OH: South-Western.

Dewey, J. (1933). How We Think. Lexington, MA: Heath.

Edmondson, A. (2004). Learning from mistakes is easier said than done: group and organizational influences on the detection and correction of human error. Journal of Applied Behavioral Science, 40(1), 66–90.

Emery, M. & Purser, R. (1996). The Search Conference. San Francisco: Jossey-Bass.

Fredberg, T., Norrgren, F., & Shani, A.B. (Rami). (2011). Developing and sustaining change capability via learning mechanisms: a longitudinal perspective on transformation. In A.B. (Rami) Shani, R.W. Woodman, & W.A. Pasmore, editors. Research in Organizational Change and Development, vol. 19. Bingley, UK: Emerald. pp. 117–161.

French, W.L. & Hollmann, R.W. (1975). Management by objectives: the team approach. California Management Review, 17(3), 13–22.

Friedlander, F. & Brown, L.D. (1974). Organization development. Annual Review of Psychology, 25, 313–341.

Gebhardt, D.L. & Crump, C.E. (1990). Employee fitness and wellness programs in the workplace. American Psychologist, 45(2), 262–272.

Gibbons, M., Limoges, C., Nowotny, H., Schwartzman, S., Scott, P., & Trow, M. (1994). The New Production of Knowledge. London: Sage.

Grunberg, L., Moore, S., Greenberg, E.S., & Sikora, P. (2008). The changing workplace and its effects: a longitudinal examination of employee responses at a large company. Journal of Applied Behavioral Science, 44(2), 215–236.

Gustavsen, B. (1992). Dialogue and Development. Assen, NL: Van Gorcum.

Hall, D.T. & Morgan, M.A. (1977). Career development and planning. In W. Clay Hamner & F.L. Schmidt, editors. Contemporary Problems in Personnel, review edition. Chicago: St Clair Press. pp. 205–226.

Harrison, R. (1972). Role negotiation. In W.W. Burke & H. Hornstein, editors. The Social Technology of Organization Development. Fairfax, VA: NTL. pp. 84–96.

Heracleous, L. (2007). An ethnographic study of culture in the context of organizational change. Journal of Applied Behavioral Science, 37(4), 426–446.

Holman, P., Devane, T., & Cady, S. (2007). The Change Handbook, 2nd edition. San Francisco: Berrett-Koehler.

Hornung, S. & Rousseau, D.M. (2007). Active on the job—proactive in change: how autonomy at work contributes to employee support for organizational change. Journal of Applied Behavioral Science, 43(4), 401–426.

Hussain, Z. & Hafeez, K. (2007). Changing attitudes and behavior of stakeholders during an ­information-led organization change. Journal of Applied Behavioral Science, 44(4), 490–513.

Ivancevich, J., Matteson, M., Freedman, S., & Phillips, J. (1990). Worksite stress management interventions. American Psychologist, 45(2), 252–259.

Jimmieson, N.L., Peach, M., & White, K.M. (2008). Utilizing the theory of planned behavior to inform change management: an investigation of employee intentions to support organizational change. Journal of Applied Behavioral Science, 44(2), 237–262.

Kram, K.E. (1985). Mentoring at Work: Developmental Relationships in Organizational Life. Glenview, IL: Scott Foresman.

Kovoor-Misra, S. & Smith, M. (2007). In the aftermath of an acquisition: triggers and effects on perceived organizational identity. Journal of Applied Behavioral Science, 44(4), 422–444.

Lawler, E.E. (1987). The design of effective reward systems. In J.W. Lorsch, editor. Handbook of Organizational Behavior. Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice-Hall. pp. 255–271.

Levin, I.M. & Gottlieb, J.Z. (1993). Quality management: practice risks and value-added roles for organization development practitioners. Journal of Applied Behavioral Science, 29(3), 296–310.

Lifvergren, S., Docherty, P., & Shani, A.B. (Rami). (2011). Towards a sustainable healthcare system: transformation through participation. In S.A. Mohrman & A.B. (Rami) Shani, editors. Organizing for Sustainability, vol .1. Brinkley, UK: Emerald. pp. 99–125.

Likert, R. (1967). The Human Organization. New York: McGraw-Hill

Lillrank, P., Shani, A.B., Kolodny, H., Stymne, B., Figuera, J.R., & Liu, M. (1998). Learning from the success of continuous improvement change programs: an international comparative study. In R.W. Woodman & W.A. Pasmore, editors. Research in Organizational Change and Development, vol. 11. Greenwich, CT: JAI Press. pp. 47–72.

Lonergan, B.J. (1992). Insight: an essay in human understanding. F. Crowe & R. Doran, editors. The Collected Works of Bernard Lonergan, vol. 3. Toronto: University of Toronto Press. Original publication 1957.

Lundberg, C.C. (1989). On organizational learning: implications and opportunities for expanding organizational development. In R.W. Woodman & W.A. Pasmore, editors. Research in Organizational Change and Development, vol. 3. Greenwich, CT: JAI Press. pp. 61–82.

MacLean, D., MacIntosh, R., & Grant S. (2002). Model 2 Management Research. British Journal of Management, 13(2), 189–207.

Macy, B.A. & Izumi, H. (1993). Organizational change, design, and work innovation: a meta-­analysis of 131 North American field studies—1961–1991. In R.W. Woodman & W.A. Pasmore, editors. Research in Organizational Change and Development, vol. 7. Greenwich, CT: JAI Press. pp. 235–313.

Macy, B.A., Farias, G.F., Rosa, J.F., & Moore, C. (2007). Built to change: high-performance work systems and self-directed work teams—a longitudinal quasi-experimental field study. In R.W. Woodman & W.A. Pasmore, editors. Research in Organizational Change and Development, vol. 16. Oxford: Elsevier. pp. 337–416.

Marmenout, K. (2010). Employee sense making mergers: how deal characteristics shape employee attitudes. Journal of Applied Behavioral Science, 46(3), 329–359.

Marquardt, M., Leonard, S., Freedman, A.M., & Hill, C. (2009). Action Learning for Developing Leaders and Organizations. Washington, DC: American Psychological Association.

McDonagh, J. & Coghlan, D. (2006). Information technology and the lure of integrated change: a neglected role for organization development? Public Administration Quarterly, 30, 22–55.

Meyer, C.B. (2006). Destructive dynamics of middle management intervention in postmerger processes. Journal of Applied Behavioral Science, 42(4), 397–419.

Meynell, H. (1998). Redirecting Philosophy: Reflections on the Nature of Knowledge from Plato to Lonergan. Toronto: Toronto University Press.

Miller, M.V. & Robinson, C. (2004). Managing the disappointment of job termination: outplacement as a cooling device. Journal of Applied Behavioral Science, 40(1), 49–65.

Mitki, Y., Shani, A.B. (Rami), & Stjernberg, T. (2000). A typology of change programs. In R.T. Golembiewski, editor. Handbook of Organizational Consultation, 2nd edition. New York: Marcel Dekker. pp. 777–785.

Morhman, S.A., Lawler, E.E., & Associates. (2011). Useful Research: Advancing Theory and Practice. San Francisco: Berrett-Koehler.

Mohrman, S.A. & Mohrman, A.M. Jr. (1997). Fundamental organizational change as organizational learning: creating time-based organizations. In R.W. Woodman & W.A. Pasmore, editors. Research in Organizational Change and Development, vol. 10. Greenwich, CT: JAI Press. pp. 197–228.

Mohrman, S.A., Tenkasi, R., & Mohrman, A.M. (2003). Social networks and planned organizational change: the impact of strong network ties on effective change implementation and use. Journal of Applied Behavioral Science, 39(3), 301–323.

Pasmore, W.A. (1988). Designing Effective Organizations: The Sociotechnical System Perspective. New York: Wiley.

Pasmore, W.A. (2011). Tipping the balance: overcoming persistent problems in organizational change. In A.B. (Rami) Shani, R. Woodman, & W.A. Pasmore, editors. Research in Organization Change and Development, vol. 19. Brinkley, UK: Emerald. pp. 259–292.

Pasmore, W.A., Stymne, B., Shani, A.B. (Rami), Mohrman, S.A., & Adler, N. (2008). The promise of collaborative management research. In A.B. (Rami) Shani, S.A. Mohrman, W.A. Pasmore, B. Stymne, & N. Adler. Handbook of Collaborative Management Research. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage. pp. 7–31.

Polanyi, M. (2001). Toward common ground and action on repetitive strain injuries: an assessment of a future search conference. Journal of Applied Behavioral Science, 37(4), 465–487.

Porras, J.I. (1987). Stream Analysis. Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley.

Porras, J.I. & Robertson, P.J. (1987). Organization development theory: a typology and evaluation. In R. Woodman & W.A. Pasmore, editors. Research in Organization Change and Development, vol. 1. Greenwich, CT: JAI. pp. 1–58.

Rashford, N.S. & Coghlan, D. (1994). The Dynamics of Organizational Levels. Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley.

Reed, J. (2007). Appreciative Inquiry: Research for Change. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage.

Reiter, N. (2007). Work Life Balance: What do YOU Mean? Journal of Applied Behavioral Science, 43(2), 273–294.

Sackmann, S.A., Eggenhofer-Rehart, P.M., & Friesl, M. (2009). Sustainable change: long term efforts towards developing a learning organization. Journal of Applied Behavioral Science, 45(4), 521–549.

Schein, E.H. (1989). Organization development: science, technology or philosophy? MIT Sloan School of Management Working Paper, 3065-89-BPS. Reproduced in D Coghlan &A.B. (Rami) Shani, editors. (2010). Fundamentals of Organization Development, vol. 1. pp. 91–100. London: Sage.

Schein, E.H. (2008). Clinical inquiry/research. In P. Reason & H. Bradbury, editors. Handbook of Action Research, 2nd edition. London: Sage. pp. 226–279.

Schein, E.H. (2010). Organizational Culture and Leadership, 4th edition. San Francisco: Jossey Bass.

Seo, M.-G. (2005). Understanding the human side of mergers and acquisitions: an integrative framework. Journal of Applied Behavioral Science, 41(4), 422–443.

Shani, A.B. (Rami), Mohrman, S.A., Pasmore, W., Stymne, B., & Adler, N. (2008). Handbook of Collaborative Management Research. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage.

Shani, A.B. (Rami) & Pasmore W.A. (1985). Organization inquiry: towards a new model of the action research process. In D.D. Warrick, editor. Contemporary Organization Development: Current Thinking and Applications. Scott Foresman and Company: Glenview, IL. pp. 438–448. Reproduced in D. Coghlan & A.B. (Rami) Shani, editors. (2010). Fundamentals of Organization Development, vol. 1. London: Sage. pp. 249–260.

Shani, A.B. & Stjernberg, T. (1995). The integration of change in organizations: alternative learning and transformation mechanisms. In R.W. Woodman & W.A. Pasmore, editors. Research in Organizational Change and Development, vol. 8. Greenwich, CT: JAI Press. pp. 77–122.

Shani, A.B. (Rami), Woodman, R., & Pasmore, W.A., editors. (2011). Research in Organization Change and Development, vol. 19. Brinkley, UK: Emerald.

Shperling, Z. & Shiron, A. (2005). A field experiment assessing the impact of the focused diagnosis intervention on job autonomy. Journal of Applied Behavioral Science, 41(2), 222–240.

Stebbins, M.W., Shani, A.B. (Rami), Moon, W., & Bowles, D. (1998). Business process reengineering at Blue Shield of California: the integration of multiple change initiatives. Journal of Organizational Change Management, 11(3), 216–232.

Steel, R.P. & Jennings, K.R. (1992). Quality improvement technologies for the 90s: new directions for research and theory. In W.A. Pasmore & R.W. Woodman, editors. Research in Organizational Change and Development, vol. 6. Greenwich, CT: JAI Press. pp. 1–36.

Taylor, J. (1998). Participative design: linking BPR and SAP with STS approach. Journal of Organizational Change Management, 11(3), 233–245.

Tichy, N.M. & Nisberg, J.N. (1976). When does job restructuring work? Organizational Dynamics, 5(1), 63–80.

Torbert, W.R. (1989). Leading organizational transformation. In R.W. Woodman & W.A. Pasmore, editors. Research in Organizational Change and Development, vol. 3. Greenwich, CT: JAI Press. pp. 83–116.

van Eijnatten, F., Shani, A.B. (Rami), & Leary, M. (2008). Sociotechnical systems: designing and managing sustainable organizations. In T. Cummings, editor. Handbook of Organization Development. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage. pp. 277–309.

Vangen, S. & Huxham, C. (2003). Nurturing collaborative relations: building trust in interorganizational collaboration. Journal of Applied Behavioral Science, 39(1), 5031.

Vansina, L.S. & Tallieu, T. (1996). Business process reengineering or sociotechnical system design in new cloth? In R.W. Woodman & W.A. Pasmore, editors. Research in Organizational Change and Development, vol. 9. Greenwich, CT: JAI Press. pp. 81–100.

Wageman, R., Hackman, J.R., & Kehman, E. (2005). Team diagnostic survey. Journal of Applied Behavioral Science, 41(1), 373–398.

Walton, R.E. (1987). Managing Conflict: Interpersonal Dialogue and Third Party Roles, 2nd edition. Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley.

Weber, P.S. & Manning, M.R. (1998). A comparative framework for large group organizational change interventions. In R.W. Woodman & W.A. Pasmore, editors. Research in Organizational Change and Development, vol. 11. Greenwich, CT: JAI Press. pp. 225–252.

Worley, C.G. & Parker, S.B. (2011). Building multi-stakeholder sustainability networks: the Cuyahoga Valley initiative. In S.A. Mohrman & A.B. (Rami) Shani, editors. Organizing for Sustainability, vol. 1. Bingley, UK: Emerald. pp. 187–214.

Zand, D.E. (1974). Collateral organization: a new change strategy? Journal of Applied Behavioral Science, 10(1), 63–69.

Zhou, J., Shin, S.I., & Canella, A.A. (2008). Employee self-perceived creativity after mergers and acquisitions. Journal of Applied Behavioral Science, 44(4), 397–421.





Index


360-degree feedback

3M

absenteeism

and abusive supervision

and employee engagement

and organizational commitment

and person–organization fit

and workplace bullying

see also sickness absence; work attendance

abusive supervision

and destructive leadership

and employee stress

and employee well-being

antecedents

defined

future research

individual consequences

intentionality

organizational consequences

organizational cost

prevalence

action learning

action research

and appreciative inquiry

and organizational development

adaptive challenges

adaptive cost theory

adaptive leadership

affect

and transformational leadership

negative

positive

see also affect-based trust; emotions; negative affectivity (NA)

affect-based trust

affective commitment

affective well-being

age

aggression

and hostile attribution style

and intent

and negative affectivity

and stress

displacement of

predictors of

agreeableness

AI see appreciative inquiry

Albania

ALQ see Authentic Leadership Questionnaire

alternative future scenarios

altruism

amygdala

anger-hostility

see also trait anger

anxiety

and abusive supervision

and mindfulness training

and return to work

and social defenses

appearance

Apple

applied clinical practice

appreciative inquiry (AI)

4-D cycle

and organizational change

and organizational development

and positive psychology

and second-order change

definitions of

principles of

underpinning theories

Aristotle

attachment/affiliation need system

attention

attraction–selection–attrition process

attributions

attribution style

authenticity

authentic leadership

and employee engagement

and mindfulness

and organizational citizenship behavior

and trust

Authentic Leadership Questionnaire (ALQ)

authentizotic organizations

authoritarianism

autocracy–democracy study

autocratic leadership

automaticity

back pain

balanced processing

BAS see behavior activation system

behavior activation system (BAS)

behavior inhibition system (BIS)

behaviorism

benchmarking

benevolence

Bertalanffy, Ludwig von

Big Five factors

biographical details

Bion, Wilfred

BIS see behavior inhibition system

BP (company)

BPR see business process reengineering

brain

effects of mindfulness training on

limbic and cortical structures

reactions associated with amygdala

brainstorming

bribery

Bridger, Harold

Brodsky, Carroll M.

Brown, Wilfred

Bulgaria

bullying see workplace bullying

bureaucracy

Burke, W. Warner

burnout

among physicians

and abusive supervision

and charismatic leadership

and employee stress

and job stress

and supportive leadership

and transformational leadership

leader

business process reengineering (BPR)

business schools

business students

“butterfly” effect

cancer

cardiovascular disease

see also coronary heart disease

catharsis

causal-reasoning theory (CRT), of CWR

CCRTs see core conflictual relationship themes

centralization

CEOs

change

adapting to

agents of

and appreciative-inquiry

and bullying

and chaos theory

and complexity theory

and employee stress

and general systems theory

and health care industry

and learning

and neuroscience

and organizational commitment

and participation

and positive psychology

as inherent in human action

attitudes towards

behavioral models

bottom-up

commitment to

common patterns of

concern-based adoption model

Confucian approach to

conversational approaches to

crisis/threat-driven

cynicism towards

descriptive models

dialectic model

dynamic models

emergent

evolutionary

failure rate

first-order

“garbage can” model of

Heraclitus of Ephesus on

incremental

in developing Western countries

innovation–decision-process model

Lewinian approach to

life cycle model

management

objects of

openness to

perceptions of control over

postmodernist perspective

psychoanalytic approaches to

radical

readiness for

resistance to

second order

“slash and burn” approach

success rate

teleological model

theories of

top-down

transtheoretical model

voluntary

change-related communication

Changing Culture of a Factory

chaos theory

charisma

and CEOs

and burnout

and positive emotions

dark side of

definitions of

see also charismatic leadership; idealized influence

charismatic leadership

and burnout

and employee engagement

and organizational citizenship behavior

and positive emotions

and trust

see also charisma

chronic stress

civic virtue

Civilization and its Discontents

clinical paradigm

cognition-based trust

cognitive ability

cognitive control

cognitive dissonance

see also dissonance

cohesion

see also group cohesiveness

collaborative management research

collectivism

communication

and return to work process

change-related

symmetrical

community of inquiry

competence

leader’s

perceived personal

complementary fit

complexity-leadership theory

complexity theory

concern-based adoption model

conflict

and laissez faire leadership

and transformational leadership

between organizations and social systems

interpersonal

relationship

with supervisors

work-family

see also role conflict

conflict-management style

Confucius

conscientiousness

contingency theory

contingent reward

continuance commitment

continuous improvement

core conflictual relationship themes (CCRTs)

coronary heart disease

see also cardiovascular disease

corrective emotional moments

corruption

counterproductive work behavior (CWB)

and abusive supervision

and attribution style

and Big Five factors

and locus of control

and organizational justice

and workplace bullying

causal-reasoning theory of

defined

stressor-emotion model

courtesy

creative destruction

“creative swiping”

creative-thinking programs

creativity

and bullying

and commitment to change

and employee development

and experience

and idea development

and mental flexibility

and mindfulness training

and organizational culture

and organizational structure

and process improvement

and trust in leadership

developing

critical-incident methodology

Croatia

CRT see causal-reasoning theory

culture

learning

safety

see also culture-change programs; leader–culture fit; national culture; open cultures; organizational culture

culture-change programs

see also culture

CWB see counterproductive work behavior

cybernetics

cynicism

and transformational leadership

towards change

Czech Republic

danger-ratio effect

decisional balance

decision-making

and mindfulness training

data-based

participative

defensive responses

demands–ability fit

democracy

industrial

see also autocracy–democracy studies

democratic leadership

denial

Denison model

dependency assumption

depersonalization

depression

and abusive supervision

and return to work

and sickness absence

and transformational leadership

and workplace bullying

destructive leadership

see also abusive supervision; negative leadership; workplace bullying

developing Western countries

health care industry

organizational change in

Dewey, John

differentiation

diffusion of innovation theory

disability

displacement

dissonance

distress

and mindfulness

distributed leadership

distributive justice

distrust

divergent thinking

diversity

dominance

double-loop learning

Dutton Engineering

dynamic equilibrium

EBMgt see evidence-based management

education

see also education sector; leadership development; organizational learning

education sector

see also education

effective leadership

elitism

ELS see Ethical Leadership Scale

ELW see Ethical Leadership at Work Questionnaire

emergent change

emotional abuse

see also abusive supervision; workplace bullying

emotional contagion

emotional exhaustion

emotional intelligence

emotional labor

emotional stability

emotional support

emotion regulation

emotions

negative

positive

see also affect, emotion regulation

empathy

employee development

employee engagement

and leadership

and participation

and supervisory support

defined

positive organizational outcomes of

employee personality

employee retention

employee strain

employee stress

and abusive supervision

and burnout

and leadership

and organizational change

and organizational development

and sickness absence

and supervisory support

and workplace bullying

in developing Western countries

see also job stress; stress

employee well-being

and authenticity

and engagement

and leadership

and leadership development programs

and supervisory behavior

and workplace bullying

see also health; psychological health; psychological well-being

employment status

empowerment

and complementary leader–culture fit

and creativity

and in-role performance

and leadership

and managerial trust

endogeneity

engagement see employee engagement

engaging leadership

Enron

entropy

equifinality

ethical guidance

ethical leadership

Ethical Leadership at Work Questionnaire (ELW)

Ethical Leadership Scale (ELS)

ethical stewardship

ethics

ethnicity

eustress

evidence

sources of

types of

use of

evidence-based management (EBMgt)

and leaders

and organizations

costs and benefits

defined

future research

history of

evidence-based medicine

evidence-based practice

see also evidence-based management (EBMgt)

evolutionary change

evolutionary game theory

evolutionary psychology

executive coaching

executive functions

expansion

experience

and attitudes towards change

and creativity

experiential focus

exploration/assertion need system

external encoders

extroversion

fairness

feedback

360-degree

and action research model

negative

organizing data from

positive

feedback loops

Festinger, Leon

field research

field theory

fight–flight assumption

fine-tuning

first-order change

fit

complementary

concept of

demands–ability

needs–supply

objective

perceived

person–environment (P–E)

person–organization

person–supervisor

person–vocation

subjective

supplementary

see also leader–culture fit

Five-facet Mindfulness Questionnaire

folie á deux

force-field analysis

Freedman, Artur M.

Freud, Sigmund

frustration

gender

and ethics

and leadership

and sickness absence

and socialist systems

general empirical method

General Motors (GM)

general systems theory (GST)

generativity

Germany

Gestalt psychology

Glacier project

Global Leadership and Organizational Behavior Effectiveness (GLOBE) Research Project

GLOBE Project see Global Leadership and Organizational Behavior Effectiveness (GLOBE) Research Project

goal internalization

Google

Greece

grounded theory

group cohesiveness

see also cohesion

group dynamics

see also participative management

groups

shadow side of

theory of

see also peer group coaching; person–group fit; T-groups

GST see general systems theory

happiness

Harassed Worker, The

Hard Facts, Dangerous Half-Truths and Total Nonsense

Harwood Manufacturing Corporation

HAS see hostile attribution style

Hawthorne effect

health

and abusive supervision

and workplace bullying

mental

see also employee well-being; psychological health; psychological well-being

health-care industry

health-care management

Heraclitus of Ephesus

heroic leadership

Hewlett Packard

hierarchical linear models (HLMs)

Hirschhorn, Larry

HLMs see hierarchical linear models

Honda

hospitals

hostile attribution style (HAS)

humanistic psychology

human-resource management

humility

Hungary

I Ching

ICI

idea development

idealized influence

idealizing

identification

organizational

projective

with the aggressor

ILT see Implicit Leadership Theory

immune response

Implicit Leadership Theory (ILT)

Inability to Mourn, The

In a Different Voice

inclusive language

incremental change

individualism

individualized consideration

injustice

see also justice

industrial democracy

inertia

information-sharing

ingratiation

“inner theatre”

innovation

and mindfulness training

and organizational structure

and workplace bullying

attitudes towards

developing

innovation–decision-process model

innovation-implementation behaviors

innovation-inspired positive organizational development (IPOD)

innovation management

innovation process

insomnia

see also sleep; sleeplessness

inspirational leadership

inspirational motivation

integrity

of followers

of leaders

Intel

intellectual stimulation

intelligence

emotional

interactionalism

interactional justice

and abusive supervision

and employee insomnia

and trust

internal encoders

internalized moral perspective

International Society for the Psychoanalytic Study of Organizations (IPSO)

interpersonal conflict

interpersonal deviance

intrinsic motivation

intuition

IPOD see innovation-inspired positive organizational development

IPSO see International Society for the Psychoanalytic Study of Organizations

ISO 9000

issue-selling

Jacques, Elliot

Japan

job attitudes

job control

job-demand control theory

job demands

job demands-resources theory

job formalization

job performance

see also performance

job resources

job satisfaction

and attitudes to change

and organizational citizenship behavior

and organizational commitment

and readiness for change

and supportive leadership

and trust in leadership

and workplace bullying

job status

job stress

among physicians

and burnout

and transformational leadership

see also employee stress

job tension

justice see organizational justice

Karmoy

Kets de Vries, M.F.R.

knowledge-based economics

knowledge-building behaviors

Kodak

laboratory training

laissez faire leadership

latent congruence model

Lawrence, Paul R.

leader–culture fit

analogs at the organizational level

and national culture

and organizational effectiveness

basic considerations of

complementary

research on

supplementary

leader-empowering behaviors

leader–follower dissimilarities

leader–follower fit

leader–follower relationships

and trust

leader–member exchange (LMX)

and employee stress

and trust

leader–member relations

leaders

ability

competence

adaptive

and evidence-based management

and trust in followers

appearance

authenticity

benevolence

impact of cultural fit on

integrity

personal history

position power of

pseudotransformational

selection process

self-ratings

stereotypes

systems-oriented

use of evidence by

see also leadership; leader stress

leadership

adaptive

and diversity

and employee engagement

and employee stress

and employee well-being

and ethnicity

and gender

and mindfulness

and national culture

and organizational change

and organizational citizenship behavior

and organizational culture

and participation during change

and performance

and psychosocial risk

and religion

and return to work

and sickness absence

and workplace bullying

autocratic

behavioral approach

biological approach

charismatic–inspirational models

coaching

construct definitions

contextual approach

contingency theory

“dark side” of

definitions of

democratic

destructive

differentiated from management

distributed

effective

empowering

empowerment-oriented

engaging

ethical

evolutionary perspective

future of

“great man” theory

heroic

information-processing school of

inspirational

laissez faire

measurement and methodological issues

“nearby”

negative

new-leadership school of

paternalistic

post-heroic models

process models

psychodynamic approach

public integrative

“quiet”

relational approaches

relationship-based

school

servant

shared

situational approach

skeptics of

spiritual

styles

supportive

task-based

team-integrating

theories of

training

trait theory

trust in

tyrannical behavior

visionary

see also abusive supervision; authentic leadership; charismatic leadership; transactional leadership; transformational leadership

leadership-complexity theory

leadership derailed behavior

leadership development

and employee well-being

future research

integrative theory of

psychodynamic approach

leadership functions

leadership performance

Leadership Quarterly journal

leader stress

and abusive behaviors

and mindfulness training

and transformational leadership

see also leaders; stress

lean manufacturing

learning culture

least preferred co-worker (LPC)

Leavitt, Harold J.

Levinson, Harry

Lewin, Kurt

life-scripts

Likert, Rensis

Litwin, George H.

LMX theory see leader–member exchange (LMX)

locus of control

Lorsch, Jay W.

LPC see least preferred co-worker

Machiavellianism

management

and organizational change

by exception

differentiated from leadership

functions

health-care

human-resource

in developing western countries

innovation

participative

scientific

strategic

systems of

total quality (TQM)

training

see also evidence-based management (EBMgt)

managerial grid

manipulative behaviors

masculinity

matrix organization

MBCT see mindfulness-based cognitive therapy (MBCT)

MBSR see mindfulness-based stress reduction

meaningfulness

meaningful work

Men, Management and Mental Health

Menninger Clinic

Menninger, Will

mental flexibility

mental health

see also psychological well-being

metacognitive awareness

metacognitive skills

mindfulness

and attention

and decision-making

and empathy

and perception of reality

and reactive emotions

and relationships

and stress

and working memory

application to leadership

defined

effects on brain

future research

mechanisms and strategies

overall benefits

training methods

mindfulness-based cognitive therapy (MBCT)

mindfulness-based stress reduction (MBSR)

mindlessness

mirroring

mistreatment at work

see also abusive supervision; workplace bullying

mistrust

Mitscherlich, Alexander

MLQ see Multifactor Leadership Questionnaire

monitoring

morality

see also ethics; internalized moral perspective

morphogenesis

motivational need systems

Motorola

Multifactor Leadership Questionnaire (MLQ)

multitasking

musculoskeletal disorders

NA see negative affectivity

Nadler, David A.

narcissism

and abusive supervision

and CEOs

constructive

reactive

narrative focus

national culture

and leader–culture fit

and leader–follower trust

and leadership

and organizational culture

see also culture

National Training Laboratories Institute (NTL)

“nearby” leadership

needs–supply fit

need systems

negative affect

see also negative emotions

negative affectivity (NA)

negative emotions

see also negative affect; negative affectivity (NA)

negative entropy

negative feedback

negative leadership

see also abusive supervision; destructive leadership; workplace bullying

negative-reciprocity norm

neuroscience

see also brain

neuroticism

Neurotic Organization

neurotic symptoms

Nissan

normative commitment

NTL see National Training Laboratories Institute

objective fit

OC see organizational commitment

OCB see organizational citizenship behavior

OD see organizational development

open cultures

openness

to change

open-plan offices

open systems

optimism

organizational boundaries

organizational citizenship behavior (OCB)

and abusive leadership

and authentic leadership

and charismatic leadership

and leadership behaviors

and organizational commitment

and trust in leadership

defined

determinants of

organizational climate

organizational coaching

organizational commitment (OC)

affective

and change

and education

and organizational citizenship behavior

and participation

and trust in leadership

continuance

normative

organizational culture

and abusive supervision

and creativity

and evidence-based practice

and leadership

and national culture

and participation–commitment link

changing

differentiated from societal culture

see also culture

organizational development (OD)

and employee stress

and Lewinian approach to change

defined

diagnostic

dialogic

history of

limits of

origin of the term

positive

rigor and relevance

value alignment

see also organizational development (OD) interventions

organizational development (OD) interventions

and general empirical method

clustering of

focused programs

holistic programs

limited programs

organizational deviance

Organizational Diagnosis

organizational diagnosis

organizational effectiveness

organizational identification

organizational justice

and abusive supervision

and trust in leadership

distributive

see also injustice; interactional justice; procedural justice

organizational learning

and change

and creativity

double-loop

single-loop

organizational politics

organizational role analysis

organizational structure

and creativity

and innovation

identifying

organizational tenure

organizational voice

ostracism

Oticon

PA see positive affect

pairing assumption

paradoxes

participation

and education

and organizational change

and organizational commitment

and procedural justice

and productivity

as voluntary behavior

defined

determinants of

employees reactions to

see also participative decision-making

participative decision-making

and trust

see also participation

participative management

paternalistic leadership

path–goal theory

peer group coaching

P–E fit see person–environment (P–E) fit

people orientation

perceived fit

perceived organizational support (POS)

and trust

and participation–commitment link

perceived supervisory support (PSS)

and management training programs

and participation

and trust

see also supervisory support

performance

and authenticity

and empowerment

and job attitudes

and leadership

and stress

and trust

and value-congruence

and workplace bullying

see also job performance; leadership performance

persistence

personal accomplishment

personal history

personality traits

and attitudes towards change

and destructive forms of leadership

and transformational leadership

Big Five factors

see also employee personality

personal narratives

person–environment (P–E) fit

person–group fit

person–job fit

person–organization fit

person–supervisor fit

person–vocation fit

Philips

physicians

police forces

polynomial regression

Porras, Jerry

POS see perceived organizational support

position power

positive affect (PA)

see also positive emotions

positive emotions

see also positive affect (PA)

positive entropy

positive feedback

positive institutions

positive mood

positive organizational behavior

positive organizational development

positive organizational scholarship

positive psychology (PP)

and appreciative inquiry

and organizational change

and psychological perspectives

and second-order change

definitions

differentiated from positive thinking

underpinning theories

positivity

post-heroic leadership

postmodernity

post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD)

Power and Personality

Power and the Corporate Mind

power distance

power sharing

power stress

PP see positive psychology

primary changes

Principles of Scientific Management, The

privatization

proactivity

procedural injustice

see also procedural justice

procedural justice

and abusive supervision

and employee affect

and organizational commitment

and participation

and self-esteem

and trust

see also procedural injustice

process consultation

process improvement

productivity

and engaging leadership

and participation

and self-organization

and workplace bullying

professional efficacy

professional values

profit-sharing plans

projection

projective identification

prosocial behavior

prototypicality

provocative subordinates

pseudotransformational leaders

PSS see perceived supervisory support

PsyCap see psychological capital

psychiatric sickness absence

psychoanalysis

psychodynamic theory

psychological capital (PsyCap)

psychological contract

psychological flexibility

psychological health

see also mental health; psychological well-being

psychological safety

psychological well-being

of employees

of leaders

see also mental health; psychological health

psychosocial risk

PTSD see post-traumatic stress disorder

public integrative leadership

public service sectors

quality-assurance programs

quality control

quality movement

quasi-stationary equilibrium

“quiet” leadership

race

radical change

reactance

reactive emotions

reality

effect of mindfulness on perception of

social

reframing

regulatory tactics

relational transparency

relationship-based leadership

relationships

and mindfulness training

see also leader–follower relationships

religion

response-surface methodology

return to work

revenge

reward structures

risk-taking

role ambiguity

role clarity

role conflict

role enlargement

Romania

rule of combination

Ruma, Steve

sabotage

safety culture

sanctions

scapegoats

scenario-planning

schizophrenia

school leadership

scientific management

scientific method

secondary changes

second-order change

self-awareness

self-concept

self-deception

self-efficacy

and authentic leadership

and laissez faire leadership

and leader’s training

and readiness for change

and transactional leadership

and transformational leadership

defined

self-esteem

and attitudes towards change

and authenticity

and bullying

and destructive leadership

and transformational leadership

self-organization

self-ratings

self-regulation

self-sacrifice

Semco

sense making

during change

habitual ways of

sensitivity training

sense of coherence (SOC)

serum cortisol levels

servant leadership

Sex, Money, Happiness and Death

sexual harassment

sexual orientation

shared leadership

Shell

sickness absence

and gender

and job demands

and job resources

and leadership

and social support

and stress at work

and supervisory support

and workplace bullying

psychiatric

see also absenteeism; return to work; work attendance

single-loop learning

Six Sigma

sleep

sleeplessness

see also insomnia

Slovenia

small businesses

Snow, John

SOC see sense of coherence

social capital

social constructionism

social defenses

social dreaming

social-exchange theory

social exclusion

social information processing theory

social-interactionist perspective

socialist systems

social-learning theory

social power

social reality

social support

Society without the Father

sociotechnical systems (STS)

models

open

Sony

spiritual leadership

splitting

sportsmanship

storytelling

strategic management

stress

and aggression

and gender

and mindfulness training

and performance

chronic

see also distress; employee stress; eustress; leader stress; power stress

stressor–strain relationship

STS see sociotechnical systems

subjective fit

subsystems

suggestion schemes

supervisory behavior

supervisory support

see also perceived supervisory support (PSS)

supplementary fit

supportive leadership

suprasystems

survival anxiety

survival reactions

sustainability

symmetrical communication

systematic reviews

systems-oriented leaders

systems theory

congruence model

differentiation and integration model

flexible-functional model

organizational performance and change model

organizational systems model

pentagram model

six-box organizational model

stream-analysis model

swamp model

technical, political, cultural (TPC) framework

see also general systems theory (GST)

systems thinking

task-based leadership

task performance

task structure

Tavistock Institute

team-building

team cohesion

see also cohesion

team-efficacy

team empowerment

team-integrating leadership

teams

technical problems

tertiary changes

T-groups

theft

theory x

theory y

“thinking out of the box”

threat appraisals

Tichy, Noel

tipping points

TLQ see Transformational Leadership Questionnaire

TLS see transformational leadership scale

total quality management (TQM)

toxic triangle

Toyota

TQM see total quality management

trait anger

see also anger-hostility

transactional behaviors

transactional leadership

and employee stress

and organizational culture

and performance

transcendence of self

transference

transformational leadership

and affect

and burnout

and depression

and emotional intelligence

and employee engagement

and employee stress

and job stress

and leader stress

and mental health

and organizational citizenship behavior

and organizational culture

and performance on stressful task

and personality traits

and psychological well-being of employees

and psychological well-being of leaders

and trust

differentiated

Transformational Leadership Questionnaire (TLQ)

transformational leadership scale (TLS)

transparency

transtheoretical model of behavior change (TTM)

Trist, Eric

trust

affect-based

and authentic leadership

and charismatic leadership

and followership

and leader–member exchange

and servant leadership

and transformational leadership

antecedents in leader–follower relationships

buffering effect of

cognition-based

consequences in leader–follower relationships

cross-cultural implications

in followers

in leadership

lack of

propensity to

referents of

repair

role in leader–follower relationships

transfer of

see also distrust; mistrust

trustworthiness

see also trust

TTM see transtheoretical model of behavior change

Turkey

turnover intentions

and abusive supervision

and organizational commitment

and supportive leadership

and trust in leadership

Tushman, Michael L.

type theory

ultimatum game

uncertainty avoidance

unfreezing–changing–refreezing model

Unilever

unmet expectations

value-congruence

variance analysis

Visa

vision

visionary leadership

voluntary behavior

voluntary change

Weiner, Norbert

Weisbord, M.R.

well-being see employee well-being

work attendance

see also absenteeism; sickness absence

work engagement

see also employee engagement

work stress

see also employee stress

work task

working memory capacity

workplace bullying

and employee well-being

and laissez faire leadership

and leadership

antecedents

defined

future research

individual consequences

intentionality

organizational consequences

organizational cost

prevalence

witnessing

workplace violence

Workplace Within, The

Worldcom

Yerkes–Dodson curve

Zaleznik, Abraham

ZTC Ryland





