                Begin Reading
              Table of Contents
              About the Authors
               Copyright Page


         Thank you for buying this
          St. Martin’s Press ebook.


   To receive special offers, bonus content,
and info on new releases and other great reads,
         sign up for our newsletters.




             Or visit us online at
     us.macmillan.com/newslettersignup


For email updates on Colin Bryar, click here.
  For email updates on Bill Carr, click here.
The author and publisher have provided this e-book to you for
your personal use only. You may not make this e-book
publicly available in any way. Copyright infringement is
against the law. If you believe the copy of this e-book you
are reading infringes on the author’s copyright, please
notify the publisher at: us.macmillanusa.com/piracy.
To Sarah and Lynn
Introduction


To say that Amazon is an unconventional company is an
understatement. Its most significant initiatives have often been
criticized and even derided as folly. One business pundit
dubbed it “Amazon.toast.”1 Time and again, Amazon has
proved the doubters wrong. Established competitors and
aspiring newcomers have studied the company from the
outside, hoping to uncover the secrets of its success and build
upon them. Though many have adopted one or more of its
famous principles and practices, even Amazon’s most fervent
believers haven’t managed to duplicate the culture of
innovation that continues to drive the company further into the
lead.
     Of course, the company has also come under scrutiny,
even under fire, for some of its business methods. Some take
issue with its impact on the business world and even on our
society as a whole.* These issues are obviously important, both
because they affect the lives of people and communities and
because, increasingly, failure to address them can have a
serious reputational and financial impact on a company. But
they are beyond the scope of what we can cover in-depth in
this book, which is primarily about showing you some of the
unique principles and processes at Amazon with enough detail
that you will be able to implement them if you choose to.
     We spent a combined total of 27 years at Amazon, and we
were there for some of the most pivotal moments of its
development and growth. Any time either of us mentions that
we worked at the company, we are immediately asked some
version of a question that tries to get at the essential causes of
its singular success. Analysts, competitors, and even
customers have tried to sum it up in terms of the Amazon
business model or corporate culture, but the simplest and best
distillation is still that of founder Jeff Bezos (hereafter referred
to as Jeff): “We have an unshakeable conviction that the long-
term interests of shareowners are perfectly aligned with the
interests of customers.”2 In other words, while it’s true that
shareholder value stems from growth in profit, Amazon
believes that long-term growth is best produced by putting the
customer first.
    If you held this conviction, what kind of company would
you build? In a talk at the 2018 Air, Space and Cyber
Conference, Jeff described Amazon this way: “Our culture is
four things: customer obsession instead of competitor
obsession; willingness to think long term, with a longer
investment horizon than most of our peers; eagerness to
invent, which of course goes hand in hand with failure; and
then, finally, taking professional pride in operational
excellence.”
      That description has held true since Amazon’s earliest
days. In its first shareholder letter back in 1997, Amazon’s
first year as a public company, you’ll find the phrases “Obsess
Over Customers,” “It’s All About the Long Term,” and “We
will continue to learn from both our successes and our
failures.” One year later the term “Operational Excellence”
entered the discussion, completing the four-faceted description
of Amazon’s corporate culture that endures today. Over the
ensuing years, the wording has been tweaked to reflect lessons
learned and scars earned, but Amazon has never wavered in its
commitment to these four core principles. And they are in
large part the reason that in 2015 Amazon became the
company that reached $100 billion in annual sales faster than
any other in the world. Remarkably, that same year Amazon
Web Services (AWS) was reaching $10 billion in annual sales
—at an even faster pace than the one Amazon had set.3
     Of course, these four cultural touchstones don’t quite get
at the “how,” that is, how people can work, individually and
collectively, to ensure that they are maintained. And so Jeff
and his leadership team crafted a set of 14 Leadership
Principles, as well as a broad set of explicit, practical
methodologies, that constantly reinforce its cultural goals.
These include: the Bar Raiser hiring process that ensures that
the company continues to acquire top talent; a bias for
separable teams run by leaders with a singular focus that
optimizes for speed of delivery and innovation; the use of
written narratives instead of slide decks to ensure that deep
understanding of complex issues drives well-informed
decisions; a relentless focus on input metrics to ensure that
teams work on activities that propel the business. And finally
there is the product development process that gives this book
its name: working backwards from the desired customer
experience.
     Many of the business problems that Amazon faces are no
different from those faced by every other company, small or
large. The difference is how Amazon keeps coming up with
uniquely Amazonian solutions to those problems. Taken
together, these elements combine to form a way of thinking,
managing, and working that we refer to as being Amazonian, a
term that we coined for the purposes of this book. Both of us,
Colin and Bill, were “in the room,” and—along with other
senior leaders—we shaped and refined what it means to be
Amazonian. We both worked extensively with Jeff and were
actively involved in creating a number of Amazon’s most
enduring successes (not to mention some of its notable flops)
in what was the most invigorating professional experience of
our lives.
                             Colin
My first job out of college was designing and building
database applications at Oracle. After that, I co-founded a
company called Server Technologies Group with two
colleagues. We wanted to use our experience in large-scale
database systems to help companies move their business
activities to the then-nascent Web. Our customers included
Boeing, Microsoft, and a small company called Amazon. We
recognized that Amazon was something special, and in 1998
we moved to Amazon, where I worked for 12 years as an
executive, two of them in a role that brought me into the room
with Jeff during an extraordinary period in Amazon’s growth
and innovation. Those two years began in the summer of 2003
when Jeff asked me to become his technical advisor, a role that
is known colloquially as “Jeff’s shadow,” and is similar to a
chief of staff role at other companies.
     The position had been formalized about 18 months earlier
when Andy Jassy, now CEO of Amazon Web Services,
became Jeff’s first full-time technical advisor. It had two main
responsibilities. One was to help Jeff be as effective as
possible. The other was, as Jeff put it to me, to “model and
learn from each other” so that the person who held the position
could eventually move on to a bigger role in the company.
     Both Jeff and Andy made it clear that this was not the role
of an observer or auditor, nor was it a training role. I would be
expected to contribute immediately: to come up with ideas,
take risks, and be a sounding board for Jeff. Before I took the
job, I asked for the weekend to think about it and called a
couple of friends—one had a comparable role assisting the
CEO of a Fortune 10 company, and another was the right-hand
man of a prominent government official. They both said, in
effect, “Are you crazy? This is a once-in-a-lifetime chance.
Why didn’t you take the job on the spot?” They also told me
my schedule would not be my own, and that I’d learn more
than I could possibly imagine. One of them told me that while
he learned a huge amount on the job, it was not exactly fun
work.
     Most of what my friends told me was true of being Jeff’s
shadow, with the notable exception that my job actually was a
lot of fun. Once, we were traveling to New York for a series of
meetings and events, including a tennis exhibition in Grand
Central Terminal to promote Amazon’s new apparel store. On
the flight, Jeff asked me if I’d mind hitting some tennis balls
with him when we landed so he could practice for the event, as
his game was a bit rusty—he’d last played two years earlier in
a charity event with Bill Gates, Andre Agassi, and Pete
Sampras, “and before that, who knows?” I told him I’d played
two weeks earlier at the local park with my buddy John. “So
you have me beat on the A-list tennis partners,” I said, “but
I’ve got you on recency. I’m calling it a push. We’ll have to
settle the rest on the tennis court this evening.” Jeff laughed
and said it was a deal.
     This story is atypical—95 percent of the time I spent with
Jeff was focused on internal work issues rather than external
events like conferences, public speeches, and sports matches.
But it’s typical in that he faced challenging situations such as
this one—playing a sport he almost never practiced in front of
a big crowd—with optimism, humor, and his well-known
infectious laugh. This is the same spirit with which he faced
his daily business decisions that were bigger than most people
make in their whole careers. He truly embodies the Amazon
motto, “Work hard, have fun, make history.”
     I worked with him during his regular office hours from
ten in the morning to seven in the evening. Most days entailed
between five and seven meetings with product or executive
teams. Before and after Jeff’s office hours I worked with those
teams to help them prepare for their interactions with him so
they’d be more productive for everyone. I already knew what
it was like to be on the receiving end of an endless flood of
ideas from him and then be asked to accomplish things quickly
and with standards that could seem unreasonably high. I was
often asked, “How do you think Jeff will respond to this
idea?” My standard answer was, “I can’t predict what he’ll
say, but these are the principles that typically inform his
response.…”
    During my time with Jeff, several pivotal Amazon
businesses came to life, including Amazon Prime, Amazon
Web Services, Kindle, and Fulfillment by Amazon. Several
Amazon business processes, now firmly entrenched in being
Amazonian, were introduced, including writing narratives and
using the Working Backwards process.
     I was aware of my good fortune and the rare opportunity
my job afforded me to work side by side with Jeff and the
Amazon senior leadership on a daily basis for over two years.
I was determined to take advantage of every minute. I’d view
activities such as car rides, lunches, and walking to meetings
as precious learning opportunities I did not want to miss. One
time a friend saw me writing down a long list of items in a
notebook and asked what I was doing. I responded, “Well, I
have a five-hour flight to New York with Jeff later this week
and I want to make sure I have at least five hours’ worth of
questions and topics in case there’s any free time.” When I
write about what led to Jeff making key decisions in this book,
I can do so because I often directly asked him for his specific
thinking behind his insights, as the reasoning behind them was
often more illuminating than the insights themselves.
                              Bill
My path to Amazon was circuitous. After college I worked in
sales for a few years before getting my MBA. I then took a
sales job at Procter & Gamble before becoming one of P&G’s
account analysts for Kmart. Wanting to work in technology, I
left P&G for a job at a software startup called Evare. In May
1999, at the suggestion of a college friend, I interviewed for a
position at Amazon. The company was still housed in a single
building on Second Avenue in Seattle. Space was so cramped
that one of my interviews was conducted in a break room
where, on the other side of a cubicle divider, people were
getting coffee and chatting. I was offered a job as product
manager in video (VHS and DVD), and remained at the
company in various roles for the next 15 years.
     For the first five years of my tenure, I worked in
Amazon’s largest business at that time, the U.S. physical
media group—books, music, video—where I rose through the
ranks to director. In January 2004, just a few months after Jeff
invited Colin to become his technical advisor, my manager and
good friend Steve Kessel dropped a similarly unexpected
bombshell on me. He was going to be promoted to senior vice
president and, at Jeff’s request, take over the company’s digital
business. He told me that I was to be promoted to vice
president and that he wanted me to join him.
     Steve informed me that Jeff had decided the time was
right for Amazon to start enabling our customers to buy and
read/watch/listen to books/videos/music digitally. The
company was at a crossroads. Though the books, CD, and
VHS/DVD business was Amazon’s most popular, changes in
internet and device technology, as well as the emergence of
Napster and Apple iPod/iTunes, made it clear that this would
not last. We expected that the physical media business would
decline over time due to the shift to digital. We felt we had to
act right away.
    Jeff often used an analogy in those days when describing
our efforts to innovate and build new businesses. “We need to
plant many seeds,” he would say, “because we don’t know
which one of those seeds will grow into a mighty oak.” It was
an apt analogy. The oak is one of the sturdiest and longest-
living trees in the forest. Each tree produces thousands of
acorns for every one tree that eventually rises to the sky.
    In retrospect, this was a renaissance era at Amazon. The
seeds Amazon planted beginning in 2004 would grow into the
Kindle e-book reader, the Fire tablet, Fire TV, Amazon Prime
Video, Amazon Music, Amazon Studios, our voice-activated
Echo speaker, and the underlying Alexa voice assistant
technology. They would become some of Amazon’s strongest
and fastest-growing new businesses and value drivers. By
2018, these business units had created devices and services
used daily by tens of millions of consumers around the world,
generating tens of billions in annual revenue for Amazon.
     I was fortunate enough throughout the decade to sit in
either the driver’s seat or a passenger seat (with a great view)
for these new product initiatives. My role would evolve over
the years, and I would become the owner and leader of
Amazon’s worldwide digital music and video business and
engineering organizations. My team and I led the launch,
development, and growth of the services that are known today
as Amazon Music, Prime Video, and Amazon Studios.
Through this experience, I had the opportunity to observe,
participate in, and learn from the development and invention
not only of these new products but also of a set of new
Amazon processes, the combination of which would propel the
company’s second stage of growth, which has made it one of
the most valuable companies on earth.
Working Backwards on an Amazon Book
We became friends through my wife, Lynn, and Colin’s wife,
Sarah, who became close friends when they both landed on the
Amazon Toys category team in 2000 after earning their
MBAs. Our friendship grew through our mutual love of golf
and regular trips to play Bandon Dunes. We decided to write
this book in 2018, when we observed two trends. The first was
that Amazon’s popularity had exploded, having become
omnipresent in the media. People clearly craved to learn more
about Amazon. The second was that Amazon was consistently
misunderstood, which we experienced during our years on the
inside. Wall Street analysts couldn’t comprehend why Amazon
didn’t make a profit, as the company reinvested its cash in new
products to drive future growth. And the press was often
baffled by and critical of each new Amazon product, including
Kindle, Prime, and Amazon Web Services.
     Both of us moved on from Amazon to pursue new
endeavors—Colin in 2010 and Bill in 2014—but we were
forever shaped by our Amazon experiences. We worked with a
variety of companies and investors in venture capital. Typical
of the kind of thing we heard in our work was this remark by
the CEO of a Fortune 100 company: “I don’t understand how
Amazon does it. They are able to build and win in so many
different businesses from retail, to AWS, to digital media.
Meanwhile, we have been at this for more than 30 years, and
we still haven’t mastered our core business.”
    We realized that there was a gap in the marketplace. There
was no source, no book to answer the questions and explain
Amazon’s peculiar behavior and how it has produced
exceptional results. We know the answers to those questions,
and that is what we will share with you in these pages.
     Since leaving Amazon, we have both introduced many of
its elements to our new organizations, to great effect. But we
find that when we talk to colleagues about introducing
Amazon’s principles to their workplace, they often respond
with some version of, “But you had a lot more resources and
money, not to mention Jeff Bezos. We don’t.”
    We’re here to tell you that you do not need Amazon’s
capital (in fact Amazon was capital constrained for most of
our years there), nor do you need Jeff Bezos (though if he is
available to work on your project, we’d highly recommend
him!). Amazon’s concrete, replicable principles and practices
can be learned by anyone and refined and scaled throughout a
company. After reading this book, we hope you’ll see that
being Amazonian is not a mystical leadership cult but a
flexible mindset. You can take the elements that you need as
you need them, then tweak and customize them as conditions
warrant. The concept also has a wonderful fractal quality,
meaning it can add benefit at any scale. We have witnessed the
successful adoption of these elements across companies
ranging from a ten-person startup to a global enterprise with
hundreds of thousands of employees.
    Here we will guide you toward being Amazonian in your
own way, within your own organization. We’ll offer specific,
practical advice expressed through some of our favorite
Amazon lore: the events, stories, conversations, personalities,
jokes, and more that we have accumulated over the years.
    We don’t claim that being Amazonian is the only way to
build a high-performing organization. As Jeff has written,
“The world, thankfully, is full of many high-performing,
highly distinctive corporate cultures. We never claim that our
approach is the right one—just that it’s ours…”4
    Now it can also be yours.
Part One



    Being Amazonian
Introduction to Part One


In the first half of this book, we will lay out in detail some of
the crucial principles and processes that define being
Amazonian. These ways of working—patiently honed over the
years—have enabled Amazon’s remarkable efficiency and its
record-breaking growth. They have made Amazon’s culture
one in which invention thrives and delighting customers is
highly prioritized. We will tell some of the origin stories of
these principles and processes to demonstrate that they were
solutions to problems that were impeding our ability to invent
freely and satisfy our customers consistently.
     The Amazon Leadership Principles are the main focus of
chapter one. In the very early days of the company, when it
consisted of a handful of people working out of three small
rooms, there were no formal leadership principles because, in
a sense, Jeff was the leadership principles. He wrote the job
descriptions, interviewed candidates, packed and shipped
boxes, and read every email that went out to customers.
Taking part in every aspect of the business allowed him to
communicate the Amazon philosophy informally to the
relatively small group of employees. But the company
expanded so quickly that it was soon impossible to
communicate it that way anymore. Thus, the need for the
Leadership Principles. We tell the story of the process by
which they were created—itself a quintessentially Amazonian
story—and we describe how they are infused into every
capillary of the company’s operation.
    Hand in hand with the Leadership Principles go the
mechanisms, which we also discuss in chapter one. These are
the consistent, repeated processes that ensure the Leadership
Principles are reinforced year to year and day to day in the
company. We enumerate the method by which Amazon
generates its yearly plans and goals for each individual team
and for the company as a whole, and how it creates alignment
between the team goals and the company goals. We also
describe Amazon’s distinctive compensation policy, which
reinforces collaboration and long-term focus over intramural
competition and orientation toward short-term gains.
     In chapter two, we discuss the Bar Raiser, Amazon’s
unique hiring process. Like the Leadership Principles, we
created the Bar Raiser because the company was growing
extremely fast. One of the major pitfalls of needing to hire a
lot of new people very quickly is urgency bias: the tendency to
overlook a candidate’s flaws because you are overwhelmed
with work and need bodies. The Bar Raiser provides teams
with methods to make the strongest hires efficiently and
quickly, but without cutting corners.
     In a company known for its inventiveness, separable,
single-threaded leadership has been one of Amazon’s most
useful inventions. We discuss it in chapter three. This is the
organizational strategy that minimizes the drag on efficiency
created by intra-organizational dependencies. The basic
premise is, for each initiative or project, there is a single leader
whose focus is that project and that project alone, and that
leader oversees teams of people whose attention is similarly
focused on that one project. This chapter is as much the story
of how we arrived at single-threaded leadership as it is a
description of it: we outline the problems it was created to
solve, and the imperfect solutions we developed before we
came to the one that really works. We’ll also discuss how and
why we had to completely change the way we built and
deployed technology in order to make separable, single-
threaded teams a reality.
     We also found that what really works in meetings is not
what most companies do in meetings. As much as we respect
PowerPoint as a visual communication tool and speaking aid,
we learned the hard way that it’s not the best format to
communicate complex information about initiatives and
ongoing projects in a one-hour meeting. We found, instead,
that a six-page narrative written by a given team is the method
that best enables everyone in a meeting to get up to speed
quickly and efficiently on the project that team is working on.
At the same time, the process of composing that narrative
requires the team itself to reflect on the work they’ve been
doing or propose to do, and to articulate it clearly to others,
thereby sharpening their own thinking about that work. We
discuss the details of this genre of narrative—and give an
example of one—in chapter four.
     In chapter five, we discuss how new ideas and products
are developed at Amazon: Working Backwards from the
desired customer experience. Before we start building, we
write a Press Release to clearly define how the new idea or
product will benefit customers, and we create a list of
Frequently Asked Questions to resolve the tough issues up
front. We carefully and critically study and modify each of
these documents until we’re satisfied before we move on to
the next step.
     The customer is also at the center of how we analyze and
manage performance metrics. Our emphasis is on what we call
controllable input metrics, rather than output metrics.
Controllable input metrics (e.g., reducing internal costs so you
can affordably lower product prices, adding new items for sale
on the website, or reducing standard delivery time) measure
the set of activities that, if done well, will yield the desired
results, or output metrics (such as monthly revenue and stock
price). We detail these metrics as well as how to discover and
track them in chapter six.
     Part one does not comprise an exhaustive list of principles
and processes developed at Amazon. We selected the ones that
we think best illustrate what it means to be Amazonian. We
will show you how we arrived at each one of them. And we
will give you concrete, actionable information that will help
you hone the methods by which your company or
organization, big or small, can maximize its potential to serve
its customers.
1
Building Blocks
Leadership Principles and Mechanisms
    The development of the 14 Amazon Leadership Principles. How they’re
    infused into everyday work. Checks and balances (mechanisms) reinforce
    them. Why they confer a significant competitive advantage. How they can be
    applied in your company.




Amazon.com opened for business in July 1995, staffed by a
handful of people handpicked by Jeff Bezos. In 1994, Jeff had
read a report that projected annual internet usage growth at
2,300 percent. He was then a senior vice president at D. E.
Shaw & Co., a New York hedge fund specializing in
sophisticated mathematical models to exploit market
inefficiencies. He decided that getting in on the growth of the
Web was a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity, so he gave up his
lucrative and promising career and drove west with his wife,
MacKenzie, to start an internet business.
     Along the way to Seattle, he wrote his business plan. He
identified several reasons why the book category was
underserved and well suited to online commerce. He outlined
how he could create a new and compelling experience for
book-buying customers. To begin with, books were relatively
lightweight and came in fairly uniform sizes, meaning they
would be easy and inexpensive to warehouse, pack, and ship.
Second, while more than 100 million books had been written
and more than a million titles were in print in 1994, even a
Barnes & Noble mega-bookstore could stock only tens of
thousands of titles. An online bookstore, on the other hand,
could offer not just the books that could fit in a brick-and-
mortar store but any book in print. Third, there were two large
book-distribution companies, Ingram and Baker & Taylor, that
acted as intermediaries between publishers and retailers and
maintained huge inventories in vast warehouses. They kept
detailed electronic catalogs of books in print to make it easy
for bookstores and libraries to order from them. Jeff realized
that he could combine the infrastructure that Ingram and Baker
& Taylor had created—warehouses full of books ready to be
shipped, plus an electronic catalog of those books—with the
growing infrastructure of the Web, making it possible for
consumers to find and buy any book in print and get it shipped
directly to their homes. Finally, the site could use technology
to analyze the behavior of customers and create a unique,
personalized experience for each one of them.
     The first Amazonians worked elbow to elbow in three
small rooms, upstairs from a converted basement filled mostly
with overstock from the army surplus store across the street.
Desks, including Jeff’s, had been fashioned out of doors
affixed to four-by-fours with metal angle brackets. A
padlocked plywood door in that basement secured the first
Amazon “distribution center,” a room measuring perhaps 400
square feet that had last served as the practice space for a local
band whose name was still spray-painted on the door.
     In such close quarters, Jeff could take the pulse of the
company—from software development to finance and
operations—by turning his chair around or poking his head
through the doorway of an adjoining room. He knew everyone
who worked for the company and, apart from writing the all-
important software, he had done each of their jobs alongside
them while they learned the ropes. And, never shy about how
he wanted things done, he began to instill guiding principles,
like customer obsession and unrelentingly high standards, into
every step his small team took.
    From the tone of customer emails to the condition of the
books and their packaging, Jeff had one simple rule: “It has to
be perfect.” He’d remind his team that one bad customer
experience would undo the goodwill of hundreds of perfect
ones. When a coffee-table book arrived from the distributor
with a scratch across the dust jacket, Jeff had customer service
write to the customer to apologize and explain that, since
coffee-table books are meant for display, a replacement copy
was already on order, but shipment would be delayed—unless
time was of the essence and they preferred the scratched copy
right away. The customer loved the response, and decided to
wait for the perfect copy while expressing their delight at
receiving this surprise consideration.
     Jeff also proofread customer service emails that dealt with
any new topic. One day a prominent technology columnist
wrote to ask a series of penetrating and challenging questions
about the business, credit card security, and more. Jeff read his
team’s response to the columnist, seemed to read it a second
time, and then said, “That’s perfect.” After that, apparently
satisfied that customer service had now internalized the core
principles he insisted upon, he checked in far less frequently.
     Another of Jeff’s frequent exhortations to his small staff
was that Amazon should always underpromise and
overdeliver, to ensure that customer expectations were
exceeded. One example of this principle was that the website
clearly described standard shipping as U.S. Postal Service
First-Class Mail. In actuality, all these shipments were sent by
Priority Mail—a far more expensive option that guaranteed
delivery within two to three business days anywhere in the
United States. This was called out as a complimentary upgrade
in the shipment-confirmation email. Thank-you emails for the
upgrade included one that read, “You guys R going to make a
billion dollars.” When Jeff saw it he roared with laughter, then
printed a copy to take back to his office.
     The job description he wrote for his very first employee
said, “You must have experience designing and building large
and complex (yet maintainable) systems, and you should be
able to do so in about one-third the time that most competent
people think possible.”1 In his very first letter to shareholders,
in 1997, Jeff wrote, “When I interview people I tell them, ‘You
can work long, hard, or smart, but at Amazon.com you can’t
choose two out of three.’”2
   In those days, the spirit of Amazon meant that most
Amazonians embraced Jeff’s challenging standards. People
worked a minimum of 60 hours per week, with music blasting
in the office late at night, and did whatever was needed to
satisfy customers. Every afternoon, Jeff would join everybody
in the basement to pack customer orders, at first working on
hands and knees on the concrete floor. A wide variety of
orders came in ever-increasing numbers from all over the
world. It quickly became clear that something very special was
happening, and it was exciting to be a part of it.
     The growth that followed was historic and virtually
unprecedented, and it meant changes in the company. Months
after moving into its first office, door desks crowded every
space, so the company moved to a vastly larger office down
the street. They soon burst the seams again and moved a
second time. During the first critical years, Jeff could transmit
the strength and clarity of his message directly to the small
leadership team through daily and weekly interactions; he
could be present for decisions big and small; and he could
formulate and apply principles like customer obsession,
innovation, frugality, personal ownership, bias for action, and
high standards. But new employees—who in the beginning
had each been hired personally by Jeff—quickly reached
numbers that demanded new layers of leadership. By the late
1990s, the organization had grown from tens to more than 500.
This fantastic growth began to limit Jeff’s ability to be fully
involved in hiring leaders and inculcating them with his
values. His standards could be maintained only if the company
itself, from top to bottom, somehow committed to keeping
them at the forefront.
    In this chapter, we’ll discuss how Amazon established a
set of principles and mechanisms, enabling the company to
grow from a single founder to several hundred thousand
employees3 while remaining stubbornly true to its mission of
obsessing over customers to create long-term shareholder
value. Some of these methods are well known and have been
widely adopted. Some are probably unique to Amazon.
    What distinguishes Amazon is that its Leadership
Principles are deeply ingrained in every significant process
and function at the company. In many cases, the principles
dictate a way of thinking or doing work that is different from
the way that most companies operate. As a result, newly hired
Amazonians go through a challenging multimonth period of
learning and adapting to these new methods. Because these
processes and practices are embedded in every meeting,
document, decision, interview, and performance discussion,
following them becomes second nature over time. And any
employee who violates them draws attention to themselves
like a person loudly scratching their fingernails across a
chalkboard. If, for example, a person spoke up at a meeting
and suggested an idea that was obviously geared toward short-
term considerations and ignored significant longer-term ones,
or proposed something that was competitor- rather than
customer-centric, there would be an uncomfortable pause
before someone pointed out what was on everyone else’s
mind. While this practice may not be unique to Amazon, it is a
defining element of its success.
     By the late 1990s, there was a set of Amazon core
competencies that every Amazonian was expected to exhibit,
as well as an additional set of competencies that all managers
were expected to master and employ. When I (Bill) first read
through the long list of competencies as a new hire in 1999, I
recall feeling a mix of inspiration and intimidation thanks to
the combination of super-high standards applied across such a
breadth of disciplines. I thought, “I will have to work harder
and smarter than I have ever worked if I am to live up to
these.”
     In 2004, human resources head Mike George and his
colleague Robin Andrulevich made an observation: the
company had grown like a weed, adding many leaders who
were inexperienced and in need of some formal management
and leadership training. So Mike asked Robin to create a
leadership-training program. Robin asserted that doing so
would first require clearly and succinctly codifying what
leadership meant at Amazon. Such an exercise would certainly
delay the rollout of the program, but, after much discussion,
everyone agreed it would be a worthy undertaking.
     In the 2015 shareholder letter, Jeff wrote, “You can write
down your corporate culture, but when you do so, you’re
discovering it, uncovering it—not creating it.”4 This was the
assumption on which Robin had been operating when she set
about to codify the Leadership Principles. She interviewed
people throughout Amazon who were effective leaders and
who embodied the essence of this burgeoning company. What
she thought would be a two-month project took nine months to
complete. But by the time she was finished, her effort had
gone a long way toward identifying many of the elements that
would make the company what it is today.
     This initial set of Leadership Principles was basically an
articulation and synthesis of the ethos of the people Robin
interviewed. In a few cases, a principle was based on the
leadership activities of a single person. For instance, Jeff
Wilke, then SVP of Worldwide Operations and now CEO of
Amazon’s Worldwide Consumer business, insisted on data-
driven decision-making and frequent auditing from everyone
he worked with, and this became the basis of the leadership
principle Dive Deep.
     Robin would review each draft with Mike and the HR
leadership team. Veteran HR leaders Alison Allgor and Kristin
Strout, in particular, provided valuable feedback. They’d
debate each principle with a critical eye as to whether it
belonged on the list. Some were jettisoned altogether if they
sounded generically corporate or weren’t universally relevant.
Robin and Jeff Wilke met frequently to review progress and
refine the list, sometimes bringing other leaders—including
Rick Dalzell, Tom Szkutak, and Jason Kilar—into the process.
Robin also checked in regularly with Jeff and Colin.
     I (Colin) remember one particularly intense debate that
centered on the proposed phrase “Leaders do not believe their
body odor smells of perfume” in the Apolitical/Vocally Self-
Critical principle. Was it okay to use quirky language when
communicating with a wide audience? Would people take the
principles seriously if we did? In the end, we concluded that
although the phrase was unconventional, it was devastatingly
effective at providing clarity. Body odor stayed.
    In late 2004, after months of discussion and debate, Robin
emailed what she thought was the final list of nine leadership
principles to Jeff. It felt like a lot at the time, but each one
seemed essential, and we could not agree to strike any.
    In early 2005, with the principles completed, Jeff sent an
email to all managers at Amazon, formally announcing the ten
Amazon Leadership Principles. Thanks to Robin, who did a
superb job collecting these powerful principles, they were
expressed in an actionable and distinctly Amazonian way. For
example, the Insist on the Highest Standards leadership
principle is described like this: “Leaders have relentlessly high
standards—many people may think these standards are
unreasonably high.” The words “relentlessly” and
“unreasonably high” are distinctly Jeff-ian and therefore
Amazonian ways of thinking and speaking.
    Another important Amazonian phrase often appears
alongside the Amazon Leadership Principles and key tenets:
“Unless you know better ones.” This reminds people to always
seek to improve the status quo.
    Over the following years, some of the original ten
principles underwent modification, and more were eventually
added. Even today the principles are questioned and refined
from time to time, adapting along with the company as new
understandings and new challenges arise.
    Amazon now has 14 Leadership Principles—notably more
than most companies have. They are displayed right on the
Amazon website along with this explanation: “We use our
Leadership Principles every day, whether we’re discussing
ideas for new projects or deciding on the best approach to
solving a problem. It is just one of the things that makes
Amazon peculiar.”5
    People often ask, “How do you remember all 14
principles?” The answer is not that we are particularly good at
memorization. In fact, if a company’s principles must be
memorized, it’s a warning sign that they aren’t sufficiently
woven into the fabric of that company. We know and
remember Amazon’s principles because they are the basic
framework used for making decisions and taking action. We
encountered them every day, measured ourselves against them,
and held one another similarly accountable. The longer you
work at Amazon, the more these 14 principles become part of
you and how you look at the world.
     If you expose the workings of any major Amazon process,
you’ll see these principles playing a prominent role; employee
performance evaluations highlight this perfectly. Much of the
peer and manager feedback used in these evaluations focuses
on how a person exhibited, or fell short of exhibiting, the
Amazon Leadership Principles during the review period.
Similarly, every candidate who interviews for a job at Amazon
is evaluated in light of the Leadership Principles. Interviewers
spend the better part of an hour vetting the candidate
according to selected principles, and each candidate typically
goes through five to seven interviews. Add in a 30–60 minute
debrief meeting attended by each interviewer, multiply that by
the number of open positions—10,000 in Seattle alone at the
time of this writing—and you begin to understand why
Amazon people know the principles intimately. Far from being
mere catchphrases on a poster or screensaver, Amazon’s
Leadership Principles are the company’s living, breathing
constitution.
    Amazon’s Leadership Principles6
     1. Customer Obsession. Leaders start with the customer
        and work backwards. They work vigorously to earn
        and keep customer trust. Although leaders pay
        attention to competitors, they obsess over customers.
     2. Ownership. Leaders are owners. They think long term
        and don’t sacrifice long-term value for short-term
        results. They act on behalf of the entire company,
        beyond just their own team. They never say, “that’s
        not my job.”
 3. Invent and Simplify. Leaders expect and require
    innovation and invention from their teams and always
    find ways to simplify. They are externally aware, look
    for new ideas from everywhere, and are not limited by
    “not invented here.” As we do new things, we accept
    that we may be misunderstood for long periods of
    time.
 4. Are Right, A Lot. Leaders are right a lot. They have
    strong judgment and good instincts. They seek diverse
    perspectives and work to disconfirm their beliefs.
 5. Learn and Be Curious. Leaders are never done
    learning and always seek to improve themselves. They
    are curious about new possibilities and act to explore
    them.
 6. Hire and Develop the Best. Leaders raise the
    performance bar with every hire and promotion. They
    recognize exceptional talent, and willingly move them
    throughout the organization. Leaders develop leaders
    and take seriously their role in coaching others. We
    work on behalf of our people to invent mechanisms
    for development like Career Choice.
 7. Insist on the Highest Standards. Leaders have
    relentlessly high standards—many people may think
    these standards are unreasonably high. Leaders are
    continually raising the bar and drive their teams to
    deliver high-quality products, services, and processes.
    Leaders ensure that defects do not get sent down the
    line and that problems are fixed so they stay fixed.
 8. Think Big. Thinking small is a self-fulfilling
    prophecy. Leaders create and communicate a bold
    direction that inspires results. They think differently
    and look around corners for ways to serve customers.
 9. Bias for Action. Speed matters in business. Many
    decisions and actions are reversible and do not need
    extensive study. We value calculated risk-taking.
10. Frugality. Accomplish more with less. Constraints
    breed resourcefulness, self-sufficiency, and invention.
        There are no extra points for growing headcount,
        budget size, or fixed expense.
    11. Earn Trust. Leaders listen attentively, speak candidly,
        and treat others respectfully. They are vocally self-
        critical, even when doing so is awkward or
        embarrassing. Leaders do not believe their or their
        team’s body odor smells of perfume. They benchmark
        themselves and their teams against the best.
    12. Dive Deep. Leaders operate at all levels, stay
        connected to the details, audit frequently, and are
        skeptical when metrics and anecdotes differ. No task is
        beneath them.
    13. Have Backbone; Disagree and Commit. Leaders are
        obligated to respectfully challenge decisions when
        they disagree, even when doing so is uncomfortable or
        exhausting. Leaders have conviction and are
        tenacious. They do not compromise for the sake of
        social cohesion. Once a decision is determined, they
        commit wholly.
    14. Deliver Results. Leaders focus on the key inputs for
        their business and deliver them with the right quality
        and in a timely fashion. Despite setbacks, they rise to
        the occasion and never settle.
     The nature of the Amazon Leadership Principles is borne
out in processes and practices throughout the company. For
example, the six-page narratives that the company uses in
place of PowerPoint decks to present quarterly and yearly
business updates require both the writer and reader to Dive
Deep and Insist on the Highest Standards. The Press
Release/Frequently Asked Questions process—aka PR/FAQ—
reinforces customer obsession, starting with customer needs
and working backwards from there. (See chapters four and
five for a detailed discussion of both the six-pager and the
PR/FAQ.) The Door Desk Award goes to a person who
exemplifies Frugality and Invention. The Just Do It Award is
an abnormally large, well-worn Nike sneaker given to
employees who exhibit a Bias for Action. It usually goes to a
person who has come up with a clever idea outside the scope
of their job. What’s peculiarly Amazonian about the award is
that the idea doesn’t have to be implemented—nor does it
have to actually work if it is—in order to be eligible.
     The stories we tell in part two of this book about the long,
hard road to launching some of Amazon’s most successful
services—Kindle, Prime, and Amazon Web Services—will
provide in-depth examples of the Leadership Principles in
action.
     Still, even though the Leadership Principles are embedded
into the fabric of the company, they cannot effectively enforce
themselves—that’s the job of something that Amazonians call
mechanisms.
   Mechanisms: Reinforcing the Leadership Principles
There’s a saying often heard at Amazon: “Good intentions
don’t work. Mechanisms do.” No company can rely on good
intentions like “We must try harder!” or “Next time remember
to…” to improve a process, solve a problem, or fix a mistake.
That’s because people already had good intentions when the
problems cropped up in the first place. Amazon realized early
on that if you don’t change the underlying condition that
created a problem, you should expect the problem to recur.
     Over the course of many years, Amazon has put in place
mechanisms to ensure that the Leadership Principles translate
into action. Three foundational mechanisms are: the annual
planning process; the S-Team goals process (the S-Team
consists of the senior vice presidents and direct reports to Jeff
Bezos); and Amazon’s compensation plan, which aligns
incentives with what’s best for customers and the company
over the long term.

Annual Planning: OP1 and OP2
Amazon relies heavily on autonomous, single-threaded teams
(more in chapter three). These teams keep the company
nimble, moving quickly with a minimum of external friction,
but their autonomy must be paired with precise goal-setting to
align each team’s independent plans with the company’s
overarching goals.
     Amazon’s planning for the calendar year begins in the
summer. It’s a painstaking process that requires four to eight
weeks of intensive work for the managers and many staff
members of every team in the company. This intensity is
deliberate, because a poorly defined plan—or worse, no plan
at all—can incur a much greater downstream cost.
     The S-Team begins by creating a set of high-level
expectations or objectives for the entire company. For
example, in previous years, the CEO and CFO would
articulate goals like “Grow revenue from $10 billion to $15
billion” or “Reduce fixed costs by 5 percent.” Over time,
Amazon refined such broad goals into a longer list of
increasingly detailed objectives. Examples have included:
revenue growth targets by geography and business segment;
operating leverage targets; improving productivity and giving
back those savings to customers in the form of lower prices;
generating strong free cash flow; and understanding the level
of investment in new businesses, products, and services.
     Once these high-level expectations are established, each
group begins work on its own more granular operating plan—
known as OP1—which sets out the individual group’s
“bottom-up” proposal. Through the narrative process
(described in chapter four), Amazon aims to evaluate about ten
times as much information as the typical company does in a
similar time frame. The main components of an OP1 narrative
are:

      Assessment of past performance, including goals
      achieved, goals missed, and lessons learned
      Key initiatives for the following year
      A detailed income statement
      Requests (and justifications) for resources, which may
      include things like new hires, marketing spend,
      equipment, and other fixed assets

     Each group works in partnership with its finance and
human resources counterparts to create their detailed plan,
which is then presented to a panel of leaders. The level of
those leaders—director, VP, or S-Team—depends on the size,
impact, or strategic importance of the group. The panel then
reconciles any gaps between the bottom-up proposal and the
top-down goals the group has been asked to meet. Sometimes
a team may be asked to rework its plan and re-present it until
there’s agreement between the top-down goals and bottom-up
plan.
     The OP1 process runs through the fall and is completed
before the fourth-quarter holiday rush begins. In January, after
the holiday season ends, OP1 is adjusted as necessary to
reflect the fourth-quarter results, as well as to update the
trajectory of the business. This shorter process is called OP2,
and it generates the plan of record for the calendar year.
     OP2 aligns each group with the goals of the company.
Everybody knows their overall objectives, including targets
for revenue, cost, and performance. The metrics are agreed
upon and will be supplied as part of every team’s deliverables.
OP2 makes it crystal clear what each group has committed to
do, how they intend to achieve those goals, and what resources
they need to get the work done.
    Some variances are inevitable, but any change to OP2
requires formal S-Team approval.

S-Team Goals
During OP1, as the S-Team reads and reviews the various
operating plans, they select the initiatives and goals from each
team that they consider to be the most important to achieve.
These selected goals are called, unsurprisingly, S-Team goals.
In other words, my (Bill’s) team working on Amazon Music
might have had 23 goals and initiatives in our 2012 operating
plan. After reviewing our plan with us, the S-Team might have
chosen six of the 23 to become S-Team goals. The music team
would still have worked to achieve all 23 goals, but it would
be sure to make resource allocation decisions throughout the
year to prioritize the six S-Team goals ahead of the remaining
17.
     Three notably Amazonian features of S-Team goals are
their unusually large number, their level of detail, and their
aggressiveness. S-Team goals once numbered in the dozens,
but these have expanded to many hundreds every year,
scattered across the entire company.
    S-Team goals are mainly input-focused metrics that
measure the specific activities teams need to perform during
the year that, if achieved, will yield the desired business
results. In chapter six, we will discuss in more detail how
Amazon develops such precise and specific metrics to ensure
teams meet their business objectives. S-Team goals must be
Specific, Measurable, Attainable, Relevant, and Timely
(SMART). An actual S-Team goal could be as specific as
“Add 500 new products in the amazon.fr Musical Instruments
category (100 products in Q1, 200 in Q2…),” or “Ensure
99.99 percent of all calls to software service ‘Y’ are
successfully responded to within 10 milliseconds,” or
“Increase repeat advertisers from 50 percent to 75 percent by
Q3 of next year.”
     S-Team goals are aggressive enough that Amazon only
expects about three-quarters of them to be fully achieved
during the year. Hitting every one of them would be a clear
sign that the bar had been set too low.
     S-Team goals for the entire company are aggregated and
their metrics are tracked with centralized tools by the finance
team. Each undergoes an intensive quarterly review that calls
for thorough preparation. Reviews are conducted in multihour
S-Team meetings scheduled on a rolling basis over the quarter
rather than all at once. At many companies, when the senior
leadership meets, they tend to focus more on big-picture, high-
level strategy issues than on execution. At Amazon, it’s the
opposite. Amazon leaders toil over the execution details and
regularly embody the Dive Deep leadership principle, which
states: “Leaders operate at all levels, stay connected to the
details, audit frequently, and are skeptical when metrics and
anecdotes differ. No task is beneath them.”
     The finance team tracks the S-Team goals throughout the
year with a status of green, yellow, and red. Green means you
are on track, yellow means there is some risk of missing the
goal, and red means you are not likely to hit the goal unless
something meaningful changes. During the periodic reviews,
yellow or red status draws the team’s attention where it’s
needed most, and a frank discussion about what’s wrong and
how it will be addressed ensues.
    The OP planning process aligns the entire company on
what’s truly important to accomplish for the year. S-Team
goals refine that alignment by giving top priority to the
company’s biggest or most pressing objectives. The review
cadence helps maintain alignment, no matter what happens
along the way. This structure ensures that every goal that’s
important to the company has someone—an accountable
owner—working on it.
     Last, as Amazon has grown, the planning process has
evolved with it. While the overall structure remains the same,
there are now separate leadership teams for the retail business
and AWS—and even separate teams for the large businesses
within those parts of the company. Each of these parts of the
company has its own version of “S-Team goals,” just with a
different label. As your organization grows, you can follow
this recursive process too.

Amazon Compensation Reinforces Long-Term Thinking
Even the very best of all these preparations can still be
subverted by other factors—the most insidious of which is a
certain type of “performance-based” executive compensation
that’s all too common elsewhere. No matter how clear your
leadership principles and yearly plan may be, they speak softly
in comparison to financial incentives. Money talks—if your
leadership principles, your yearly plan, and your financial
incentives are not closely aligned, you won’t get the right
results.
     Amazon believes that the “performance” in performance-
based compensation must refer to the company’s overall
performance, that is, the best interests of shareholders, which
in turn are perfectly aligned with the best interests of
customers. Accordingly, the compensation of Amazon S-Team
members and all senior leaders is heavily weighted toward
equity earned over a period of several years. The maximum
salary itself is set well below that of industry peers in the
United States. When we were there, the maximum base salary
for any employee was $160,000 (indications are that this
remains true). Some new executive hires may receive a
signing bonus, but the bulk of their compensation—and the
potentially enormous upside—is the long-term value of the
company.
     The wrong kind of compensation practice can cause
misalignment in two ways: (1) by rewarding short-term goals
at the expense of long-term value creation, and (2) by
rewarding the achievement of localized departmental
milestones whether or not they benefit the company as a
whole. Both can powerfully drive behaviors that are
antithetical to the company’s ultimate goals.
     In other industries, such as media and financial services, a
large percentage of executive compensation is doled out in
annual performance bonuses. These short-term goals (and yes,
a year is definitely short term) can generate behaviors that are
detrimental to creating long-term value. In seeking short-term
targets to maximize compensation, some may intentionally
push revenue from one time period to the next, cannibalizing
future results and obscuring current challenges. Others might
overspend marketing funds to boost sales for the current
quarter and thus hit a short-term sales goal, even at the
expense of future quarters or long-term sales. Some might be
tempted to defer expenses, put off maintenance, or cut back on
hiring in order to hit a quarterly cost-containment target—all
with negative longer-term implications. A few may even drag
their feet if asked to take on an important new role in the
company until their bonus is “in the bank,” delaying some
important company initiative. Long-term stock-based
compensation incentives, by comparison, eliminate such
selfish and costly decisions by making them nonsensical.
     Many companies set entirely independent goals for key
players at every level. All too often this gives rise to
infighting, information withholding, and hoarding of
resources, as each leader is incentivized to undermine the
other. Amazon’s compensation is, by contrast, simple and
oriented toward the long term. As one is promoted at Amazon,
the ratio of cash to equity compensation becomes more and
more skewed toward long-term equity. The Frugality
leadership principle makes the reason very plain: “There are
no extra points for headcount, budget size, or expense.”
     One clear downside to this approach is that other
companies with deep pockets can try to hire away your best
employees with big cash offers. It’s true, some employees
leave for a short-term jump in their cash compensation. But on
the positive side, Amazon’s approach reinforces the kind of
culture it seeks to develop. Sometimes it is okay to lose people
who have a short-term focus while retaining those who are in
it for the long term.
     Amazon uses a similar long-term equity structure in order
to prevent potential conflicts of interest in its wholly owned
subsidiaries, including IMDb, Zappos, and Twitch. Executives
in those companies are compensated in the same manner as
other Amazon executives, primarily with a base salary and a
heavy emphasis on Amazon equity, which encourages
collaboration.



There’s no magic number of principles and mechanisms that
every company will need. The magic lives in the moments
when the principles are put into practice. You’ll develop the
number that’s right for you, provided that you focus on how
these principles will give clarity to your company’s vision and
drive the right behaviors to create meaningful value for your
shareholders and stakeholders over the long term—even when
the CEO is not in the room.
    It’s important too to allow your principles to evolve when
necessary—to revise, cut, and add as the company grows and
changes. Learn and Be Curious was the most recent addition
for Amazon. Being Vocally Self-Critical was dropped, with
much of its content merged into Earn Trust. Adding,
subtracting, and modifying your principles in response to
change or deeper understanding is a sign that you’re probably
doing things right.
    Strong leadership principles represent a company’s vision
and enable good and fast decisions throughout the company.
Codifying those principles is a huge step forward, as we’ve
seen, but there is another step that is equally important: to
embed them into every one of your company’s core processes,
including hiring, performance management, planning,
operating cadence, and career development.
2
Hiring
Amazon’s Unique Bar Raiser Process
    The importance of hiring and the steep cost of slapdash hiring processes. The
    failings of conventional approaches, shown in a fictional example at the
    “Green Corp.” The development of the Bar Raiser process and how it
    consistently improves the level of skill and talent throughout the company.
    How the Bar Raiser process can be adapted to your company.




A former vice president at Amazon told us about the time he
applied for the position of COO at a multibillion-dollar global
tech company. The CEO interviewing him began with a string
of unrelated questions, not one of which was designed to
reveal anything of use. The kicker, following an unusually
long pause: “Tell me something about yourself that isn’t
apparent by reading your résumé.” You might as well just say,
“Look, I don’t know what I’m looking for or how to find it, so
can you please help me out?”
     At Amazon, rapid growth meant we had to develop a
rigorous process to raise our hiring game, but it didn’t happen
immediately. Our early emphasis on finding people with high
SAT scores who could answer hard questions like “How many
windows are there in Seattle?” produced people who were
smart, but the process didn’t tell us whether they would thrive
at Amazon. Jeff often said in those days, “We want
missionaries, not mercenaries.” We have all encountered
mercenaries in our career. They are in it to make a fast buck
for themselves, they don’t have the organization’s best
interests at heart, and they don’t have the resolve to stick with
your company through challenging times. Missionaries, as Jeff
defined the term, would not only believe in Amazon’s mission
but also embody its Leadership Principles. They would also
stick around: we wanted people who would thrive and work at
Amazon for five-plus years, not the 18–24 months typical of
Silicon Valley. And so, in 1999, we set about to develop a
hiring process to help us identify and hire people who fit this
description.
     It is impossible to quantify how successful this process,
which we called the Bar Raiser, has been or to establish its
importance, relative to other factors, in Amazon’s rapid
growth. What we can say is that it was common for
experienced newcomers to assert that the Bar Raiser process
was (a) unlike anything they had ever seen and (b) one of
Amazon’s secret weapons. We don’t claim that this process is
the only good one, or that it will entirely eliminate poor hiring
decisions. What we can promise is that it is significantly better
than the methods (or lack of methods) many companies rely
on, and that it will likely raise your ratio of hits to misses
significantly. We can also point to countless examples of
leaders whom we would hire externally, place them
immediately into strategically critical roles, and watch them
thrive and in many cases stay with the company for ten-plus
years.



When you consider the potential positive and negative impacts
of an important hire, not to mention the precious time
dedicated to it, it is shocking to consider how little rigor and
analysis most companies put into their hiring process. The
stakes are high. If he were to have landed that COO position,
our friend would have been making strategic decisions that
would directly affect the success of the company for years to
come. Imagine if the CEO had to make a different decision of
similar importance—whether to invest millions of dollars on a
new product line or factory, for example—in a single, one-
hour meeting. No doubt the CEO would get help from his
leadership team and insist on conducting extensive analysis.
He would think deeply about what information would be
needed to make the right decision and what questions he
should ask his team to help make it. He would spend many
hours preparing for the meeting.
     But at the global tech company where our colleague
sought the COO job, the CEO conducted the interview as if he
had not spent any time preparing for the meeting and had not
given much if any thought to the specific information he
would need to decide whether the candidate was a good
choice. And this failure didn’t just cost him the chance to
evaluate his candidate, it lost him his candidate. Based in part
on this experience, our colleague decided not to pursue the
job.
     We will make this point again and again: Amazon has
faced many of the same problems all companies face. The
difference is that Amazon has come up with novel solutions
that deliver a significant competitive advantage, and this is
true of its approach to hiring. The Bar Raiser process was one
of Amazon’s first and most successful scalable, repeatable,
and teachable operational practices.



To understand why the Amazon hiring process has worked
well, let’s first look at what’s wrong with the conventional
approach. Interviewers who lack a rigorous model for their
role in the hiring process leave themselves open to a range of
pitfalls, many of which readers may find uncomfortably
familiar. Even the smartest interviewer can wander off script
and ask questions that lack a clear objective, leading to
answers that reveal nothing about a candidate’s likely job
performance. Interviewer feedback is often communicated to
the broader team with insufficient clarity and unintentional
bias. Focusing on candidate qualities that don’t reliably predict
performance can also skew decisions in the wrong direction.
Unstructured hiring decision meetings can give rise to
groupthink, confirmation bias, and other cognitive traps that
feel right at the time but produce poor decisions.
     Let’s look at the hiring process used by Leah, who headed
up the digital media business at a fast-growing company that
we’ll call Green Corp. Her team had started to fall behind on
its performance goals because a key product management
position had been open for several months. Under pressure,
Leah had been pushing hard to fill the role, and at last her
recruiter had identified a promising candidate named Joe who
worked for their competitor, Red Corp. Joe had a stellar
résumé, with work experience in the exact space owned by
Leah’s team. He was interested in the job and willing to
relocate to Green Corp.’s headquarters. The night before the
interview, Leah felt a rush of excitement and relief that the
right candidate had finally arrived. Or so it seemed.
     Joe arrived at Green Corp. for a day of interviews, known
as the “interview loop,” which included meetings with four
different members of Leah’s team, one of whom, a long-
standing and well-respected member named Carson, was the
most influential. As each interviewer handed off Joe to the
next team member, they went back to their desks and excitedly
talked about how impressed they’d been with the candidate.
Over coffee at the end of the day, Leah conducted a final
interview with Joe, which confirmed what she had already
heard that day from her team: Joe seemed like an excellent
candidate.
      Two days later, Leah met with her team to debrief about
their interviews with Joe. She arrived with cautious optimism
that she’d finally be able to fill this important role, and that Joe
was the guy who could help her team get back on track to
meeting their goals. The entire team looked and felt less
beleaguered than they had a week earlier: they’d finally have a
full team.
     They started the meeting by reading three evaluations
written by the interviewers. They were about the same length
and similar in substance and sentiment, which is to say,
positive, without being terribly specific. Brandon, a product
manager, had the following to say:
    I am inclined to hire Joe for the product management
    position. He has a solid background owning and driving
    strategy for Red Corp. and two other relevant companies.
    He came across as having a good understanding of the
    unique challenges that face our business space, and he
    demonstrated a firm grasp on the ways that our company
    should enter a market segment that is quickly evolving.
    His experience at Red Corp. will be useful in
    evaluating/analyzing companies to partner with or
    acquire. I liked his passion for the industry throughout his
    career.
    After reading the other nearly identical reports, Leah
turned to Carson, the one person who hadn’t written a report
on his interview. He apologized—he hadn’t had time to write
up his feedback because he’d been putting out fires. He was
overstretched, since he had essentially been doing the work of
the missing product manager in addition to his own.
     Carson was brief; he said that his observations jibed with
the feedback of the rest of the team. However, something had
left Carson feeling vaguely uneasy about the candidate. But
since he didn’t have his notes with him and he’d been so busy
and overwhelmed since the interview, he couldn’t remember
what it was. And, given the enthusiastic buzz that had been
building in the office, along with the glowing written
evaluations, he decided to trust his colleagues’ assessments.
     At last it came to decision time. They went around the
table, and each person stated their hire/no-hire
recommendation. Enthusiasm built as each person
recommended the hire. Carson, the last to speak, sealed the
deal with his hire vote. Leah told the group she’d make an
offer to Joe by the end of the day.
     Several significant flaws appear in this hiring process.
First, the fact that the team members shared their thoughts
after each interview increased the likelihood that subsequent
interviewers would be biased. And Carson’s failure to
immediately write up his assessment meant that the group was
deprived of the wisdom of its most experienced and insightful
team member.
    Carson’s behavior—uncharacteristic for him—was just
one result of the urgency bias that affected the whole process.
With a key position glaringly open, and a critical employee
doing double duty to cover, the whole team felt time pressure
that compelled them to accentuate the positive and to overlook
some shortcomings in the process.
     One of these was the quality of the written evaluations.
Brandon’s evaluation, for example, showed that his interview
questions had lacked specificity and purpose. He commented
that Joe “has a solid background owning and driving strategy”
but did not provide any detailed, credible examples of what
Joe actually had accomplished in that regard. How could the
group tell if his past experience would portend that he would
be a high-performing Green Corp. employee?
     The group had also succumbed to some serious
confirmation bias—the tendency for people to focus on the
positive elements that others identify and ignore the negatives
and contradictory signals. At every handoff during the loop,
the interviewers had engaged in conversation in the team
room. The positive comments from the interviewer who had
just completed the meeting with Joe influenced the next
interviewer to also look for those positive characteristics and
to emphasize them in their evaluation. The feedback meeting
itself had been relatively unstructured, which had given rise to
groupthink among a team that valued each other’s approval
and wanted to help solve the problem by making a hire.
     Leah also made a significant mistake that, while not
related to Joe’s hiring, would probably impact her team’s long-
term performance. Everybody knew that Carson had not
performed as expected by not providing written interview
feedback. Yet Leah failed to call him on it. She missed an
opportunity to emphasize why the written feedback was
essential to the process and that being too busy did not give
one a free pass to skip such a crucial element. In not insisting
on high standards (one of the Amazon Leadership Principles),
she was in fact lowering them.
    Every bad hiring decision comes at a cost. In the best
cases, it quickly becomes apparent that the new hire is not a
good fit, and the person leaves shortly after joining. Even then,
the short-term cost can be substantial: the position may go
unstaffed for longer than you’d like, the interview team will
have wasted their time, and good candidates may have been
turned away in the interim. In the worst case, a bad hire stays
with the company while making errors in judgment that bring
a host of possible bad outcomes. Along the way, a bad hire is a
weak link who can bring the entire team down to their
standards, a long-term cost that lingers long after they leave
the company. Whatever the long-term cost of hiring Joe, Leah
and her team will pay a price for their mistake.
      And, in fact, they did. Because Joe turned out to be a poor
fit, the team members still had to put in extra hours to do the
work Joe proved unable to do—and to fix the mistakes he
made. Six months after the hire, Leah and Joe agreed that it
wasn’t working out, and Joe left the company. Still time-
pressed and now a little wary of making further mistakes, the
team had to go through the whole process again.
     The Effects of Personal Bias and Hiring Urgency
There are other types of cognitive biases that affect the hiring
process. Another harmful one is personal bias, the basic
human instinct to surround yourself with people who are like
you. People have a natural desire to hire those with similar
characteristics:   educational    background,       professional
experience, functional expertise, and similar life experiences.
The middle-aged manager who holds a degree from the
University of Michigan, worked at McKinsey, lives in the
suburbs with a partner and kids, and plays golf will tend to be
attracted to candidates with similar attributes. From the stack
of résumés, such managers will likely pick those candidates
who seem most like themselves, and carry positive
expectations about them into the interview room. The
problems with this approach are obviously (1) that such
superficial similarities typically have nothing to do with
performance, and (2) hiring for them tends to make for un-
diverse workforces with a narrower field of vision.
     Urgency in any realm can bring benefits, as we focus on
those things that are essential. But in the realm of hiring, as we
saw with Leah and her team, it can produce a sense of
desperation that leads to taking shortcuts and ignoring
essential processes, with devastating results. Imagine you are
managing a team within a fast-growing division at Amazon,
and you are working on a project of high importance and with
multiple S-Team goals. You know you will be unable to meet
the goals unless you hire new people. Your staff is
overstretched, and morale is suffering. Now, on top of the
work that you are struggling to get done, you have to write job
descriptions, coordinate activities with recruiters, review
résumés, conduct phone and in-person interviews, write and
read interview feedback, attend debrief meetings, and then
entertain, sell, and close the selected candidates. You also have
to ask your already stressed team to give up hours they can’t
spare to interview people. The urgency is even greater and the
work more intense when you’re trying to fill a highly in-
demand role such as a software development engineer or
machine learning expert. According to Sequoia Capital, the
average startup in Silicon Valley spends 990 hours to hire 12
software engineers!1 That’s more than 80 hours per hire, and
all that time taken away from a team that’s already
understaffed and working on deadline only adds to the urgency
to staff up.
      It takes almost no time to spot the superstars and to weed
out the duds, but the majority of candidates, alas, falls
somewhere in between, and that is when biases tend to kick in.
If you just pick people who have known characteristics, who
already feel familiar, they seem likely to work out. The fact
that they sometimes do succeed only makes matters worse, as
it reinforces the notion that your process is good enough.
    Another force that works against successful hiring is the
lack of a formal process and training. Startups and rapidly
growing companies are particularly likely to hire new people
without a process in place, though all too many more-
established companies have the same problem. A manager
who has been on the job for just two weeks may be expected
to quickly hire a new team of ten people. Working without the
framework of a formally defined interview and hiring process,
managers will often be driven by urgency, biases, and
convenience rather than purpose, data, and analysis.
     This can have devastating consequences for the fast-
growing company. Over a short period of time, say a year, the
number of employees can leap from 50 to 150 in a startup, or
from 150 to 500 or more during a later phase of rapid growth
when the business model is promising and the funding is in the
bank. Seemingly overnight, the new employees can vastly
outnumber their predecessors, and this dynamic can
permanently redefine the corporate culture. Brent Gleeson, a
leadership coach and Navy SEAL combat veteran, writes,
“Organizational culture comes about in one of two ways. It’s
either decisively defined, nurtured and protected from the
inception of the organization; or—more typically—it comes
about haphazardly as a collective sum of the beliefs,
experiences and behaviors of those on the team. Either way,
you will have a culture. For better or worse.”2
     In a period of torrid headcount growth, founders and early
employees often feel that they’re losing control of the
company—it has become something different than what they
set out to create. Looking back, they realize that the root cause
of the problem can be traced to an ill-defined or absent hiring
process. They were hiring scores of people who would change
the company culture rather than those who would embody,
reinforce, and add to it.
          Hiring at Amazon Before the Bar Raiser
Amazon was not immune to these forces. In the company’s
early days, Jeff handled all the interviewing and hiring
himself. Infamously, he would ask the candidate for their SAT
scores, even if the candidate was interviewing for a job in
customer support or at the distribution center, where the score
wasn’t relevant. Jeff has high academic standards and a bias
for people who are similarly academically accomplished. As
company lore has it, Jeff also liked to ask random quiz
questions, such as “How many passengers fly through LAX in
a year?” or “Why are manhole covers round?” As a result,
many of the early hires at Amazon had advanced degrees from
highly regarded universities and were good at devising
answers to left-field questions. (There are several reasons
manhole covers are round. One is that round covers can’t fall
into round holes. Another is that they’re easy to roll.) It
gradually became clear that questions like these could be
helpful in assessing a candidate’s raw intellect and ability to
think on their feet, but they aren’t good indicators of how well
an individual will perform in a given job or how effectively
they will lead inside your organization.
     As the number of employees at the Seattle headquarters
increased, Jeff could no longer participate in every interview
loop. It was up to the heads of the various departments to run
their hiring process and make the decisions within their
respective teams. One early Amazon employee and a co-
worker of mine (Colin), John Vlastelica, put it succinctly when
he said to me, “We had new people hiring new people hiring
new people.”
     In 1999, the two co-leaders of the software teams were
Joel Spiegel and Rick Dalzell. With the exception of the CTO
Shel Kaphan, all the product development employees,
including me, eventually reported to either Rick or Joel.
Virtually every software team had aggressive hiring goals.
And if a team wasn’t able to hire fast enough, they likely
would not be able to complete the work they had committed to
do for the year.
     During this time, we hired a director from a much larger
and more established retail company and tasked him with
building out several new teams. His first new hires were
managers from his prior company, and they in turn began
hiring people on their own. To say we worked in close quarters
at the time would be an understatement. We’d fill up an office
with two, three, or four door desks until there was no more
room. If the hallway was wide enough, we’d line up door
desks along one wall. When you are working literally side by
side with your co-workers, it doesn’t take long to know who is
flourishing and who is struggling. It quickly became apparent
that the talent level of these new hires was much lower than
the talent level of the rest of the software teams. With each
new hire in the new director’s organization, the overall talent
level of the Amazon product development group was going
down, not up.
     The standard company response to such a problem might
be for Rick or Joel to push the new director to “do a better job
at hiring smart, talented engineers,” that is, rely on good
intentions. The issue was that not only did the new director
have no way of knowing what Amazon considered a worthy
hire, but there was also no oversight or process to teach him or
prevent him from filling his team with subpar talent. Good
intentions were not going to solve the hiring problem at a
company growing as rapidly as Amazon, which jumped from
roughly 600 employees in 1997 to 9,000 in 2000, and then to
100,000 by 2013 (as of this writing, in 2020, Amazon is
approaching one million employees). But a mechanism would.
To Joel and Rick’s credit, they saw back in 1999 that even if
they corrected this individual situation, they would almost
certainly face it again as the company continued its rapid
growth.
    Rick, Joel, and John Vlastelica, who then headed up
technical recruiting for the company, set out to codify a
process for hiring high-level talent that matched Amazon’s
culture. From the start, they fixated on the core problem of
maintaining a consistent hiring standard as the company grew.
Thus, contrary to common lore, the Bar Raiser program, as it
later came to be known, wasn’t a top-down initiative from Jeff
but rather a response to a specific problem that needed to be
addressed. Even in these early days of the company, we can
see the Leadership Principles beginning to develop. Rick, Joel,
and John identified a problem and devised a scalable solution,
originally called the Bar Keepers program, but renamed Bar
Raiser shortly afterward. They presented it to Jeff, who
enthusiastically supported the idea and suggested a few
improvements. After this meeting, twenty original Bar Raisers
were named, a few of whom, as of this writing nearly 21 years
later, still work at Amazon. The Bar Raiser program proved so
successful once it started running that it was quickly adopted
and made a requirement for all the other corporate departments
at Amazon.
                   The Bar Raiser Solution
The Amazon Bar Raiser program has the goal of creating a
scalable, repeatable, formal process for consistently making
appropriate and successful hiring decisions. Like all good
processes, it’s simple to understand, can be easily taught to
new people, does not depend on scarce resources (such as a
single individual), and has a feedback loop to ensure continual
improvement. The Bar Raiser hiring process became one of
the earliest and most successful components of the being
Amazonian toolkit.
     As we’ve discussed, many traditional interviewing
techniques rely on the “gut feel” of interviewers working in an
informal structure, allowing bias to creep in. It is true that an
excellent interviewer will have a keen instinct for who might
make a great hire, as well as the ability to ignore biases that
arise during the interview process. The problem with relying
on a few gifted interviewers is that it doesn’t scale and it’s
hard to teach. These traits are far from universal and, in the
absence of a formal framework, you can’t ensure that everyone
involved will know how to conduct an excellent interview.
Amazon’s Bar Raiser process was designed to provide that
framework, minimize the variability of ad hoc hiring
processes, and improve results.
     “Bar Raiser” is the name of both a larger process and the
group of individuals—Bar Raisers—central to that process. In
formulating the concept of Bar Raisers, Rick, Joel, and John
drew inspiration from Microsoft, where Joel had worked prior
to joining Amazon. For many—but not all—hires, Microsoft
assigned a so-called “as-app” (short for “as appropriate”)
interviewer, a seasoned interviewer who conducted the final
interview. The as-app’s role was to make sure that only quality
hires were made. They would not be penalized if the role went
unfilled, and thus their decisions were unlikely to be
influenced by urgency bias.
    Amazon Bar Raisers receive special training in the
process. One participates in every interview loop. The name
was intended to signal to everyone involved in the hiring
process that every new hire should “raise the bar,” that is, be
better in one important way (or more) than the other members
of the team they join. The theory held that by raising the bar
with each new hire, the team would get progressively stronger
and produce increasingly powerful results. The Bar Raiser
could not be the hiring manager or a recruiter. The Bar Raiser
was granted the extraordinary power to veto any hire and
override the hiring manager.
     Amazon’s first Bar Raisers were handpicked by Rick,
Joel, and John for their interviewing skills, ability to assess
talent, adherence to high standards, credibility with peers and
hiring leaders, and leadership capability.
      This program would meet more than its fair share of
resistance over the years. There were countless times when a
hiring manager was desperate to meet a goal set by Jeff or
another leader and couldn’t get the people they needed quickly
enough. The concept of a Bar Raiser with veto power was seen
by shortsighted managers as an enemy standing in the way of
their progress. It was bewildering at first to many experienced
leaders new to the company. Many would ask if exceptions
could be made. But of course, this was part of the problem—
hiring almost always felt urgent. We know of no instances
where managers were allowed to take shortcuts. Successful
managers would quickly realize that they had to devote a
considerable amount of their time to the process and would
redouble their efforts to source, recruit, and hire candidates
who were Amazonian. Managers who failed to put in the time
(in addition to their day job) to recruit and interview didn’t
last. There is no substitute for working long, hard, and smart at
Amazon.
    The idea worked: of the hundreds of processes developed
at Amazon over more than twenty years, Bar Raiser is perhaps
the most widely used and enduring.
    There are eight steps in the Bar Raiser hiring process:
    Job Description
    Résumé Review
    Phone Screen
    In-House Interview
    Written Feedback
    Debrief/Hiring Meeting
    Reference Check
    Offer Through Onboarding

Job Description
It is difficult, if not impossible, to make the right hire without
creating a well-defined and clearly written job description
(JD), which the interviewers use to evaluate the candidates. At
Amazon, it is the hiring manager’s responsibility to write the
description, which the Bar Raiser can review for clarity. A
good job description must be specific and focused. While
some of the requirements, such as meeting the Amazon
Leadership Principles, will be standard across all positions,
most requirements are specific to the job. The JD for a sales
manager, for example, might specify the type of sales (inside
or outside), whether the sales are enterprise-related or more
transactional (i.e., long lead time, high dollar value vs. one-
call close, lower dollar value), and the level of the role (e.g.,
senior manager, director, or VP). For a software development
engineer, the JD might specify that the candidate must have
the ability to design and write computer code for highly
available, scalable systems that are easy to maintain. For other
roles, the JD may specify the ability to successfully negotiate
with vendors or to manage cross-functional teams. If the JD is
for a new position, members of the interview loop often begin
by meeting with the hiring manager and Bar Raiser to review
the description and ask clarifying questions. Typically, this
process reveals aspects of the job that the hiring manager has
failed to identify.
    Again, most hiring managers are desperate to get the
process started, and without this review process, they tend to
get fuzzy and/or out-of-date job descriptions. It is very hard to
recover from this mistake. The hiring process will inevitably
run into trouble—even fail—if the JD does not clearly
articulate the job responsibilities and required skills. The
people doing the phone screens and in-person interviews need
to be clear on the JD so they can ask the right questions to
collect the information required to make their decision. We
have participated in many debriefs in which a poorly written
job description created a conflict between the interviewers,
who were looking for one set of skills, and the hiring manager,
who was expecting something different. This can become
especially challenging as a company grows quickly and the
number of different kinds of roles you need to fill grows with
it.

Résumé Review
Once your JD is set, it’s time to zero in on the candidates you
want to interview. The recruiter—usually but not always an
Amazon employee—and the hiring manager search for
candidates by networking, using LinkedIn, and reviewing the
résumés collected in response to a job posting. The recruiter
selects the most worthy candidates based on how their résumés
fulfill the job requirements as defined in the JD. If the
candidates the recruiter selects meet the hiring manager’s
expectations, that’s a sign that the JD is clearly written and
specific. If the selected candidates are off target, the JD
probably needs work. For example, during the period when we
were transitioning to autonomous teams (more in chapter
three), we sought to hire fewer people in coordinator roles
while ramping up our search for builders and inventors. That
required new and more specific language in the JDs. Until the
JDs were revised, we received too many résumés from people
whose skills included such things as “coordinated between
teams,” and these would be discarded.

Phone Screen
Once the candidates have been selected from the résumé pool,
the hiring manager (or their designate in the case of technical
roles) conducts a one-hour phone interview with each person.
During the phone screen, the hiring manager describes the
position to the candidate in detail and seeks to establish some
rapport with them by describing their own background, and
why they chose to join Amazon. Roughly 45 minutes of that
hour should consist of the manager questioning the candidate
and following up where necessary. The questions, formulated
in advance by the hiring manager, are designed to solicit
examples of the candidate’s past behavior (“Tell me about a
time when you…”) and focus on a subset of the Amazon
Leadership Principles. Typically, the final 15 minutes of the
call are reserved for the candidate to ask questions.
     After this detailed phone screen, the hiring manager
decides whether they are inclined to hire the candidate based
on the data they’ve collected so far. If so, then the candidate
will be invited for an in-house interview. Sometimes the hiring
manager isn’t sure about a candidate but still invites them to
go through the interview loop, hoping that this will assist in
the hiring decision. This is a mistake. In most cases, the
questionable candidate will not get the job, and a lot of time
will have been wasted in the process. The hiring manager
should not bring a candidate in for the time-consuming and
expensive interview loop unless they are inclined to hire them
after the phone interview. There are many variables (the role,
the hiring manager, the volume and quality of candidate
résumés screened) that affect the rate at which candidates pass
the phone screen and are brought in for the in-house interview,
but one in four is a reasonable average. Amazon tracks and
reports on the volume and rate at which candidates pass
through the entire recruiting funnel and uses these data to
make process changes as well as to coach and train recruiters
and hiring managers. This is the hallmark of a well-run
recruiting process.

In-House Interview Loop
The in-house interview loop takes five to seven hours to
complete and requires the participation of several people who
undoubtedly have many other responsibilities and tasks on
their plate, so this step must be carefully planned, prepared,
and executed. The hiring manager constructs the interview
loop. They decide how many interviewers should be on the
loop, as well as the mixture of roles and disciplines, job levels,
and types of expertise that should be represented. Typically,
the most effective loops consist of five to seven interviewers.
The company has found that the returns on having more
people than that involved tend to diminish, and that when there
are fewer people involved, there are often gaps in knowledge
about the candidate. Whatever the exact number of
participants, the loop always includes the hiring manager, the
recruiter, and a Bar Raiser.
     There are a few important qualifications for the loop
participants. First, everyone must have been properly trained
in the company’s interviewing process. Amazon runs a half-
day course on how the interview process works and how to
conduct an interview (more on this shortly). After training, the
interviewer is required to pair up with an experienced senior
interviewer to jointly conduct at least one real interview before
they do one on their own.
     Second, no loop participant should be more than one level
below the level of the position the candidate will hold. Nor
should there be an interviewer who would become a direct
report of the candidate. People often want to have a say in
hiring their manager and may be upset if they are excluded
from the process, but it is a mistake for direct reports to
interview a prospective boss. It’s uncomfortable for the
candidate during the interview, and the direct report will learn
about the candidate’s weaknesses, and other employees’ views
of those weaknesses, during the debrief—which could lead to
problems for the future functioning of the team. Also, nothing
good happens if a future direct report is not inclined to hire the
candidate and you hire that person anyway.
     In the early days, before the Bar Raiser was created, one
of our former colleagues was, in fact, a member of the hiring
process for the person who would be his manager. He wrote
strong no-hire feedback, but the candidate was hired anyway.
The recruiter then showed the new person the negative
feedback our colleague had written. In their first meeting
together, the newly hired boss slid the feedback document
across the desk to our colleague, as if to challenge him. The
whole situation was, in the words of our colleague, “super
weird.” The boss was gone within a year.
     There are two distinctive features in an Amazon in-house
interview loop: behavioral interviewing and Bar Raiser.
1. Behavioral Interviewing
As noted, in the early days at Amazon there was not much
formal instruction or guidance on how to conduct an interview.
Managers and interviewers asked whatever questions made
sense to them.
    Eventually the most important goals of the interview
process became clear: to assess how well a candidate’s past
behavior and ways of working map to the Amazon Leadership
Principles. Managers and interviewers soon learned that the
basic information about the candidate—the details of
education and employment—are less reliable predictors of the
candidate’s ability to work in accord with the Amazon
principles.
     We assessed job-specific functional skills using methods
that are probably pretty common, such as asking a software
engineer candidate to write software code on the whiteboard.
However when assessing how well a candidate exhibits the
Amazon Leadership Principles, we adopted a technique called
Behavioral Interviewing. This involves assigning one or more
of the 14 Leadership Principles to each member of the
interview panel, who in turn poses questions that map to their
assigned leadership principle, seeking to elicit two kinds of
data. First, the interviewer wants the candidate to provide
detailed examples of what they personally contributed to
solving hard problems or how they performed in work
situations like the ones they will experience at Amazon.
Second, the interviewer wants to learn how the candidate
accomplished their goals and whether their methods align with
the Amazon Leadership Principles. General, open-ended
questions such as “Tell me about your career” or “Walk me
through your résumé” are usually a waste of time and will not
produce the kind of specific information you’re after. When
asked such questions, most candidates will take the
opportunity to deliver a positive, perhaps slightly glorified
narrative of their career.
     Instead the questions are mapped to their assigned
principles. For example, if the interviewer owns the principle
of Insist on the Highest Standards, they might ask, “Can you
give me an example of a time when your team proposed to
launch a new product or initiative and you pushed back on
their plan because you didn’t think it was good enough?”
     After the candidate answers, the interviewer probes
further. Each follow-up question is designed to acquire
specific information, which is particularly important in
determining exactly what role the candidate played in some
past accomplishment. Some candidates conflate or exaggerate
the importance of their role versus the team’s
accomplishments in a successful endeavor. More humble
candidates understate their role because they don’t want to
look like they are bragging. In both cases, it’s crucial that the
interviewer probe carefully for the truth.
    The method that Amazon interviewers use for drilling
down goes by the acronym STAR (Situation, Task, Action,
Result):
    “What was the situation?”
    “What were you tasked with?”
    “What actions did you take?”
    “What was the result?”
     A good interviewer continues to ask questions until they
feel they have a good understanding of what the interviewee
personally accomplished versus what the team did. Other
questions that can reveal this information include “If you were
assigned to work on a different project instead of Project X,
what would have changed about Project X?” and “What was
the toughest call on Project X, and who made it?”
     Some of the interviews may focus on specific functional
skills that are necessary for the role. For example, when
interviewing for a technical position, such as a software
development engineer, interviewers might ask the candidate to
write software code, solve a design question, develop an
algorithm, or demonstrate knowledge of a relevant subject
area.
     Interviewers are also trained to maintain control of the
interview. We’ve all been in a situation where the candidate,
perhaps seeking to avoid a question, goes on long detours
designed to deflect. Or perhaps they are just nervous, and
speaking aloud is their way of calming their nerves. In such
cases, interviewers know to politely cut the candidate short
and move on to the next question.
     We mentioned the process of developing a rapport with
the interviewee on the phone. This is something that continues
at the in-person meeting. Amazon interviewers are reminded
to keep in mind that every candidate—whether qualified for
the job or not—is a potential customer of the company and a
source of leads. Assume they will tell their friends and co-
workers about their interview experience. Sometimes that will
be difficult, especially if you’ve determined the candidate is
not right for the role or company, but it must be done.
    (See the appendix for tips on the process.)
2. The Bar Raiser
The Bar Raiser is involved in every interview loop, and
ensures the process is followed and bad hiring decisions are
avoided. They are also there to set a good example for other
interviewers. In addition to conducting one of the interviews,
the Bar Raiser coaches others on interviewing techniques, asks
probing questions in the debrief, makes sure that personal
biases do not affect the hiring decision, and determines
whether the candidate meets or exceeds the hiring bar set by
the company.
     Bar Raisers are trained to become experts in every aspect
of the interviewing process. There is a group of senior Bar
Raisers that manages the program, known as Bar Raiser Core,
composed mostly of VPs and directors (Bill served in this
group). Members of the core typically have been part of the
program for many years, have participated in hundreds of
interviews, and have demonstrated their mastery of
interviewing, managing debriefs, making decisions, and
teaching and training other Bar Raisers.
     Potential new Bar Raisers are identified by current Bar
Raisers and by Bar Raiser Core team members. They are
reviewed by the core group and, when provisionally approved,
they participate in a training session that is usually led by a
core member. They are then paired with a Bar Raiser who will
shadow and mentor them, and their work is reviewed again by
the Bar Raiser Core. Not all candidates are approved. They
may not be able to put their training into practice. They may
not be skilled enough at interviewing. They may not be able to
properly lead and facilitate the debrief meeting.
    It’s important to emphasize, however, that the skills of the
Bar Raiser can be learned by nearly everyone. Not everyone is
naturally a great interviewer, but given good instruction and
mentoring, people can learn to be very effective at asking
pointed questions and probing follow-ups.
    There is no extra merit pay or bonus for becoming a Bar
Raiser, and you retain all the duties of your day job. The only
public recognition you get for being a Bar Raiser is an icon
next to your name in the online company directory. But it’s a
coveted role, because Bar Raisers directly participate in the
process that helps ensure Amazon hires the best.
     We should also note that the Bar Raiser process, like other
Amazon processes, has evolved. To manage the hiring
demands for a company of almost a million people, there are
now multiple Bar Raiser Core teams. This is another example
of how Amazon’s processes are designed, from the outset, to
scale.
Written Feedback
As noted in the Green Corp. example earlier, written feedback
is essential to an effective hiring process, and this means that
every interviewer must take detailed notes—as close to a
verbatim record as possible. Some interviewers create a
document with the questions, which they use to record notes.
Some enter the notes in their computer, while others write
them longhand on paper or on the back of the candidate’s
résumé. (At the start of the meeting, you may want to explain
to the candidate that you will be taking notes and why.) The
notes are the record of the data you gather in the interview, and
you will use these notes to develop the written feedback you’ll
give to your fellow interviewers. If you do not take complete
and detailed notes, expect a visit from your Bar Raiser.
     Written feedback is expected to be specific, detailed, and
filled with examples from the interview to address the
Leadership Principles assigned to the interviewer. The
feedback should be written shortly after the interview is
complete to ensure that nothing of value is forgotten. We
found it wise to block out fifteen minutes immediately
afterward to complete the feedback. The write-up should be
thorough and clear enough that the author need not be present
for their conclusions to be understood. Again, this is not an
optional exercise at Amazon: oral feedback offered in lieu of
the written is simply unacceptable.
     The written feedback includes the interviewer’s vote on
the candidate. There are only four options—strongly inclined
to hire, inclined to hire, not inclined to hire, or strongly not
inclined to hire. There is no “undecided” option. No waffling,
provisos, or caveats are allowed—nothing like, “I am inclined
to hire but I had the lunch interview slot and couldn’t do a full
interview,” or “I’m on the fence and want to hear what others
say before making my final choice.” In some cases, it would
be acceptable to say, “I am inclined to hire the candidate at a
senior manager level but not as a director.” In general, the job
level should have been established in the job description, but
there are circumstances where a hiring manager is open to
hiring multiple levels, and this should be indicated in the JD.
To avoid bias, the interviewer may not see or discuss other
members’ votes, comments, or feedback until their own
feedback has been submitted.

Debrief/Hiring Meeting
Once the in-house interviews are complete and the written
feedback and votes have been collected, the interviewers get
together in person or via video conference to debrief and make
the hiring decision. The Bar Raiser leads the meeting, which
should be held as soon as possible, usually no more than a few
days after the interviews have been completed. The meeting
begins with everyone reading all the interview feedback.
Afterward, the Bar Raiser may kick off the meeting by asking
the group, “Now that everyone has had a chance to read all the
feedback, would anyone like to change their vote?” The reason
for this is that each interviewer submitted their vote based on
only the data that they gathered in their interview. In a five-
person interview loop, this means that the initial vote is given
while in possession of one-fifth of the data. Now that each
interviewer has read all the interview transcripts and
commentary, they have four times more information on which
to base their decision. This additional data may either confirm
an initial vote or lead to a change in vote. Either outcome is
valid and appropriate; there is no shame in changing your vote
based on the presence of additional data.
     Another method for the Bar Raiser to help get the meeting
started is to create a two-column list on a whiteboard of the
Leadership Principles where the candidate meets the bar in one
column and falls short in the other. The hiring meeting is more
than just tallying votes, otherwise it wouldn’t be necessary
unless there were a tie. The effective Bar Raiser uses the
Socratic method, asking questions that jump-start the critical
thinking process, to lead and guide the dialogue with the goal
that everyone, or at least the majority, will arrive at the same
conclusion about the candidate. The meeting is concluded with
a decision from the hiring manager (validated by the Bar
Raiser) to hire or not hire. If the hiring manager or Bar Raiser
feels that they don’t have enough information to make a
decision, then there was a failure in the process upstream (e.g.,
one or more of the interviewers failed to properly assess the
candidates on one or more of their assigned leadership
principles).
     It is extremely rare for a Bar Raiser to exercise their veto
power. We know this from our own experience and from an
informal poll of interviewers who collectively conducted some
4,000 interviews over the course of 15 years. We’ve only been
able to identify three instances in which the veto was
exercised. One of them came during the early days of the
process in 1999. The other two involved hiring managers who
were new to Amazon and had not yet adapted to the
organization. Instead, an effective Bar Raiser shares the right
examples from the interview transcripts and asks the right
probing questions of the interview panel and hiring manager to
help them see why a candidate doesn’t meet or raise the bar.
     The Bar Raiser process, and the debrief meeting in
particular, can take some getting used to—we have witnessed
countless hiring meetings in which a new hiring manager
becomes visibly uncomfortable in their first debrief run by a
Bar Raiser. They are accustomed to a more conventional
approach, in which they (as hiring manager) or the recruiter
runs the meeting. Furthermore, a new hiring manager’s
impulse is to sell the room on the candidate. At Amazon, the
hiring manager soon learns that they do not lead the meeting
and they should not seek to sell the other interviewers. The
role of the interviewers is to help the hiring manager gather
data and make an informed decision, not to block the hire. The
best practice for the hiring manager is to listen and learn and
to speak infrequently. The process is designed to prevent
urgency and bias from negatively affecting the decision, which
could result in wasted time and months of agony.
    It’s worth noting that many companies do not have a
debrief meeting. Instead, the recruiter and the person making
the hiring decision review the written feedback and discuss it
between the two of them. The Amazon debrief meeting is an
opportunity for each interviewer to learn from others and to
develop their ability to assess talent. As we’ve said, one of the
roles of the Bar Raiser is to teach and coach the other
interviewers on every loop. If the Bar Raiser observes
something amiss with the process, they are expected to give
real-time coaching and feedback and help get things back on
track. A good Bar Raiser sometimes spends more time
coaching and teaching in a debrief meeting than assessing the
candidate.

Reference Check
The Reference Check has been de-emphasized in today’s Bar
Raiser process since it has rarely affected a hiring decision, but
for completeness we’ll briefly cover how it was originally
implemented. When the interview panel decides that the
candidate is a hire, the process is not complete. The hiring
manager or recruiter next asks the candidate to supply four or
five references. Ideally, the references will include former
managers, peers and subordinates, and others who have
worked directly with the candidate, possibly for many years.
     The hiring manager, not the recruiter, then calls the
references to further explore and confirm the candidate’s skills
and past performance. One question that often gets a telling
response is, “If given the chance, would you hire this person
again?” Another is, “Of the people you have managed or
worked with, in what percentile would you place this
candidate?”
    The reference calls should validate the hiring decision and
add to the manager’s understanding of the person they will be
working with and counting on to help the group achieve their
important work goals.

Offer Through Onboarding
What happens once the team has decided to offer the job to the
candidate? At many companies, the hiring manager has the
recruiter make the offer. This is another mistake. The hiring
manager should personally make the offer and sell him/her on
the role and company. You may have chosen the candidate, but
that doesn’t mean the candidate has chosen you. You must
assume that good employees are being actively pursued by
other companies, including their current employer. There is
always the risk that you could lose the candidate. Nothing is
certain until the day they report to the office.
     This is why the hiring manager and team members must
remain involved in this part of the process. It’s important to
keep the candidate excited, not only about the company but
also about the team members they’ll be working with. They’ll
be spending the majority of their waking hours with that team,
possibly for years to come. There is still a lot that the team can
do to ensure that the investment you’ve made in getting to the
point of making the offer will pay off.
     After the offer is made, a team member should check in
with the candidate at least once a week until he or she makes a
final decision. The contact can be as simple as an email saying
how excited you are about the candidate joining the team.
Sometimes we would send a “book bomb” to a candidate—a
stack of books we thought they would like—or a handful of
their favorite DVDs. It could be a coffee or lunch. What
matters is that the gesture be sincere and personal.
     The goal in this final phase is to get to know the candidate
better and to figure out what key factors will affect their
decision on the offer. Sometimes you’ll be surprised by what
you learn. The candidate may be sold on the role and
compensation, but their spouse or partner may have
reservations about some aspects of the job. If you’re hiring a
recent college grad, their parents may have a voice in the
decision. In your conversation with the candidate after you’ve
made the offer, seek to uncover any issues standing between
them and accepting the offer, then seek to address and resolve
them.
     It may be useful to enlist other people to help close the
deal. Perhaps you have a current employee who came over
from the same company as the candidate, who attended the
same school, who knows someone who overcame similar
reservations, or who had the same questions about
compensation, work style, or whatever else you know is
holding your candidate back. Don’t be afraid to ask your VP
or CEO to get involved by making contact in some way. An
email or a quick phone call from a person outside the hiring
team, especially a person high up in the organization, may
help seal the deal.
                 Variations on the Bar Raiser
As with many of the Amazon processes we discuss in this
book, Bar Raiser has evolved. While the core elements have
remained the same as Amazon has grown, many teams have
tweaked parts of the process to address specific issues. Don’t
be afraid to do likewise.
    For example, when one group at Amazon needed to hire
several entry-level software development engineers, they
found that the percentage of candidates getting a no-hire
decision after the interview loop exceeded that of other
Amazon teams. They theorized that this was because too many
candidates were being invited to continue the process after
successfully completing the phone screen. To test the theory,
they decided to conduct two phone screens prior to flying a
candidate to Seattle for the interview loop. Regardless of
whether this approach improved the process, the motivation
was correct: the team realized they had a problem with the
process, based on their benchmarking of the hiring metrics to
other Amazon teams.
      In another case, a simple tweak to the Bar Raiser process
generated surprisingly positive results. One director wanted to
increase the gender diversity of the team. Over the ensuing
quarters, the efforts were so successful that they were
noticeable outside the department. When asked how they did
it, the team revealed their very simple solution: every résumé
received from a female applicant automatically led to a phone
screen. It’s important to say that this solution did not lower the
hiring bar, nor did it favor unqualified candidates on the basis
of gender. If the candidate did not pass the phone screen, they
would not move forward to the next step in the process.
     This technique made it clear that when a candidate’s name
implied the gender as female, an unconscious bias had been
affecting the résumé screening. The result was that well-
qualified female candidates were apparently being rejected too
early in the process. This director’s insightful solution
provides a great example of how simple enhancements to the
hiring process can improve outcomes without damaging the
core principles that it was designed to protect. It’s also a good
reminder to always be on the lookout for those places where
bias can go undetected and undermine your results.
                   Bar Raiser and Diversity
As of the completion of this book (June 2020), the Black Lives
Matter movement is bringing issues of racism, diversity,
equity, and inclusion to the forefront of our national
conversation in unprecedented ways. Achieving a diverse
workforce that operates in an equitable and inclusive manner
has become one of the most important goals for any company
or institution today. Because there is no proven process or
roadmap that we know of to achieve this, we don’t purport to
offer a solution in this book. We would submit, however, that
the Bar Raiser process can be an effective component of a
holistic, long-term plan to achieve diversity, equity, and
inclusion.
     The Bar Raiser process is designed to minimize personal
bias and maximize making data-based hiring decisions based
on the substance of each candidate’s work and how that work
maps to a set of principles. As discussed earlier in this chapter,
personal biases naturally occur in an unstructured interview
and hiring process. Bar Raiser process steps such as preparing
a set of behavior-based interview questions in advance of the
interview, insisting on written transcripts of the interview,
rereading the transcript post interview (before making an
assessment), conducting debriefs, basing debriefs on the
interview transcripts, and making assessments based on well-
understood principles are all steps that seek to eliminate
individual biases. Having a diverse group of people involved
in the process obviously reduces the chance of unconscious
bias worming its way in.
     This is not to say that Bar Raiser is a recipe for your
organization to achieve a diverse workforce. Doing so requires
long-term and holistic thinking, beginning with your
organization’s principles and reexamining every step of the
hiring process including candidate sourcing, the language in
your job descriptions, the composition of the group of people
who interview candidates, and your principles or criteria for
hiring. If a diverse workforce is your desired output, then you
will need a process to ensure that you achieve it, and Bar
Raiser can be a component of that process.
                  Hire and Develop the Best
The Amazon Bar Raiser process has been instrumental in
reinforcing a key Amazon leadership principle: Hire and
Develop the Best. It has proved to be a scalable way to
identify and attract leaders who themselves become
instrumental in growing and expanding Amazon across the
globe.
     Of great importance, the Amazon hiring process has a
flywheel effect—it pays greater and greater dividends the
longer it is used. Ideally, the bar continues to be set higher, so
much that, eventually, employees should be able to say to
themselves, “I’m glad I joined when I did. If I interviewed for
a job today, I’m not sure I’d be hired!”
3
Organizing
Separable, Single-Threaded Leadership
    Why coordination increases and productivity decreases as organizations
    grow. How Amazon combated this tendency by shifting to “separable teams
    with single-threaded leadership.” Why creating an organization of such
    teams can take time, especially in a large enterprise. How to untangle
    dependencies so teams can work independently.



       “The best way to fail at inventing something is by making it somebody’s
       part-time job.”1

Scene: A conference room. Jeff and several S-Team members
sit across the table from the leadership team of a large
Amazon business unit, including its VP, two other VPs who
report to her, and several of their directors. It’s their quarterly
business review, and they’re discussing an initiative that has
been stuck in “Status Red” for the past two quarters. Someone
asks, “What blockers are stopping you from making
progress?”
DIRECTOR X (the most knowledgeable person for the new
   initiative): As you know, this project has many moving
   parts. We’ve identified five unsolved issues so far that are
   slowing us down. They are—
JEFF (interrupting): Before we get to those issues, would
   someone please tell me who’s the most senior single-
   threaded leader for this initiative?
BUSINESS UNIT VP (after an uncomfortably long pause): I
   am.
JEFF: But you’re in charge of the whole business unit. I want
   you focused on your whole group’s performance, and that
   includes a lot more than this one initiative.
VP 1 (trying to take one for his team): That would be me, then.
JEFF: So, this is all that you and your team work on every
   day?
VP 1: Well, no. The only person working on it full time is one
   of our product managers, but we have lots of other people
   helping part time.
JEFF (impatient now): Does a PM have all the skills, authority,
   and people on their team to get this done?
VP 1: Not really, no, which is why we plan to hire a director to
    head it up.
JEFF: How many phone screens and in-house interviews have
   you conducted so far for this new director?
VP 1: Well, it’s not an open position yet. We still need to
   complete the job description. So the answer is, zero.
JEFF: Then we’re kidding ourselves. This initiative won’t go
   “green” until the new leader is in place. That is the real
   roadblock this initiative is facing. Let’s remove that one
   first.
VP 1 dashes off a terse email to head recruiter titled, “Open
director role for project X leader…”



Speed, or more accurately velocity, which measures both
speed and direction, matters in business. With all other things
being equal, the organization that moves faster will innovate
more, simply because it will be able to conduct a higher
number of experiments per unit of time. Yet many companies
find themselves struggling against their own bureaucratic drag,
which appears in the form of layer upon layer of permission,
ownership, and accountability, all working against fast,
decisive forward progress.
     We are often asked how Amazon has managed to buck
that trend by innovating so rapidly, especially across so many
businesses—online retail, cloud computing, digital goods,
devices, cashierless stores, and many more—while growing
from fewer than ten employees to nearly one million. How has
the company managed to stay nimble, not stuck struggling to
find common ground, as happens with most companies of such
size?
     The answer lies in an Amazon innovation called “single-
threaded leadership,” in which a single person, unencumbered
by competing responsibilities, owns a single major initiative
and heads up a separable, largely autonomous team to deliver
its goals. In this chapter we’ll explain what these terms mean,
how they came to be, and why they lie at the heart of the
Amazon approach to innovation and high-velocity decision-
making.
      The single-threaded leadership model emerged at the tail
end of a long, zigzag journey of well-informed trial and error.
We asked ourselves a difficult question, then responded with
bold critical thinking, experimentation, and relentless self-
critique that helped us double down on successful ideas and
jettison the failures. You won’t find an “aha moment” in this
chapter. The path from that first hard question to single-
threaded leadership took almost a decade, in large part because
it required that we first untangle our monolithic software
architecture and the organizational structures that had grown
alongside it, then replace both, step by step, with systems
designed to support rapid innovation.
            Growth Multiplied Our Challenges
First, a bit of background. From 1997 through 2001, Amazon’s
revenue grew more than twenty-one-fold from $148 million to
over $3.1 billion.2 Growth of the number of employees,
customers, and pretty much every other measurement had
similar trajectories. Innovations were being rolled out at a
furious pace too. Amazon rapidly transformed from a small
company that sold only books—and only in the United States
—into a multinational company with logistics operations in
five countries, selling almost anything that one could buy
online.
     During this phase, we became aware of another, less
positive trend: our explosive growth was slowing down our
pace of innovation. We were spending more time coordinating
and less time building. More features meant more software,
written and supported by more software engineers, so both the
code base and the technical staff grew continuously. Software
engineers were once free to modify any section of the entire
code base to independently develop, test, and immediately
deploy any new features to the website. But as the number of
software engineers grew, their work overlapped and
intertwined until it was often difficult for teams to complete
their work independently.
    Each overlap created one kind of dependency, which
describes something one team needs but can’t supply for itself.
If my team’s work requires effort from yours—whether it’s to
build something new, participate, or review—you’re one of
my dependencies. Conversely, if your team needs something
from mine, I’m a dependency of yours.
    Managing dependencies requires coordination—two or
more people sitting down to hash out a solution—and
coordination takes time. As Amazon grew, we realized that
despite our best efforts, we were spending too much time
coordinating and not enough time building. That’s because,
while the growth in employees was linear, the number of their
possible lines of communication grew exponentially.
Regardless of what form it takes—and we’ll get into the
different forms in more detail shortly—every dependency
creates drag. Amazon’s growing number of dependencies
delayed results, increased frustration, and disempowered
teams.
           Dependencies—A Practical Example
Let me take you back to March 1998, when I (Colin) started
working at Amazon, to show how dependencies had already
proliferated. At that time, the company had two large
corporate divisions, one for business and one for product
development. The business division was organized into
operating groups defined by business function—retail,
marketing, product management, fulfillment, supply chain,
customer service, and so on. Each of the operating groups on
the business side would request technical resources from the
product development department, mainly software engineers
and a small team of technical program managers (TPMs),
which included me.
     I got a taste of Amazon’s dependency problem in my first
week on the job. Our group, led by Kim Rachmeler, was
responsible for project and program management for large
initiatives that required coordination of activities across
multiple teams in order to achieve a key business goal.
Projects this group ran included launching our music (CDs)
and video (VHS/DVD) businesses, launching new websites in
the United Kingdom and Germany, and some other large,
internal projects.
     My first assignment was to work on the Amazon
Associates Program, which to date had not received much
attention from the product development team. This program
allowed third parties, commonly referred to as affiliates, to
place links to Amazon products on their websites. For
example, a site about mountain climbing might include a
curated list of recommended mountain-climbing books with
links to Amazon. When a visitor clicked on one of the links on
the affiliate website, they were taken to the book detail page
on the Amazon site. If the visitor bought that product, the
owner of the affiliate website would earn a fee—known as a
referral fee. Amazon was one of the pioneers in affiliate
marketing and, when I got involved, we were still trying to
figure out exactly what we had with this new program and
how big it could become. Although it was growing, it was not
widely viewed as core to the business. I guess that’s why I, as
the new guy, got the assignment.
     As I learned more about the Associates Program, I quickly
saw that this had the potential to be a very lucrative business.
At the time there were already 30,000 affiliates, and the
program was growing fast. The affiliates had been creative
with a very basic set of tools we had given them and were
driving an ever-growing percentage of overall traffic and sales
for Amazon. I believed the Associates Program could become
an even bigger contributor to the business, but we would have
to make several changes to it to realize its huge potential.

Preparing to Dive In
My first task was to manage an initiative to improve a nuts-
and-bolts aspect of the program: the process we used to track
and pay referral fees. At the time, we paid a referral fee only
on the specific item that the affiliate website linked to. We
wanted to change the program to pay referral fees on all
purchases a visitor made in that shopping session. We did this
because associate links were sending many customers to
Amazon who didn’t purchase the recommended item but did
decide to order something else during their visit. So
compensating the associates for those purchases seemed only
fair—it would strengthen our relationship with them, and it
would encourage them to link to Amazon even more. It did not
sound like a particularly complicated task. My initial
assessment of the project was that we’d quickly make the
minor changes to the website software and database to
implement this feature, but the majority of the effort would be
in the reporting, accounting, and payment software changes,
and in the marketing and communication work to announce
the feature to our affiliates.
    Wrong. That is when I experienced firsthand the extent of
dependencies at Amazon—in this case, technical
dependencies. At that time, Amazon’s website software was
monolithic, meaning that its functionality resided in a single
massive executable program named Obidos. Its namesake is a
village in Brazil along the fastest stretch of the Amazon River.
As Obidos grew in size and complexity to support an ever-
expanding suite of features and functionality, it began to
exhibit the flip side of that once-cheerful analogy. Obidos is
the fastest part of the river because it’s also the narrowest. Our
entire website still flowed through one huge, growing block of
code that presented a steadily rising barrier of dependencies.
Obidos had become, in effect, Amazon’s bottleneck.

Technical Dependency Number One: Gotchas in Shared Code
Each team whose features also connected to creating a product
page, putting the product in the shopping cart, finalizing an
order, tracking a return, and so on represented a technical
dependency for the Associates team. We had to coordinate
every small step with each team because a single mistake on
our part could affect their work or, even more catastrophically,
could introduce a bug that would take the whole website
down. Similarly, we had to dedicate our own time to reviewing
their changes in this part of the code to ensure that our own
functions were not impacted.

Technical Dependency Number Two: Protectors of the
Database
Software code was not the only kind of technical dependency
that we faced. We also needed to make changes to the
underlying relational database (a database structured to
recognize relations among stored information such as
customers, orders, and shipments) upon which all of Amazon’s
operations depended. The database was named acb, short for
amazon.com books. If acb were ever to go down, the majority
of the company’s operations would stop—no shopping, no
orders, no fulfillment—until we could roll back the change
and restart.
     As a vital safeguard, a steering group had been set up to
review every proposed change to acb, approve the proposal (or
reject it), and then figure out the best time to implement it.
This group was known colloquially, and accurately, as “DB
Cabal” and comprised three senior executives—the CTO, the
head of the Database Administration team, and the head of the
Data team.
     The Cabal reviewers were understandably protective of
acb and did a good job at overseeing this important company
asset. Anyone who wanted to make a change to acb would
have to undergo an intimidating, if well-intentioned, design
review. Given the tangled state of our technical architecture,
the stakes were high and many things could go wrong, so we
needed these skillful, cautious gatekeepers.
     To gain their approval, you would have to demonstrate
that the proposed change was low risk, the design was sound,
and the payoff worth it. At the end of the review, the Cabal
might approve the request or require some changes. If the
latter, you would have to make the modifications, get back in
the queue, and return for another review. The cycle time was
maddeningly slow since this august body generally met only a
few times each month, and because there were lots of other
groups queueing with their own changes.
    The project did launch successfully. But I noticed that in
the areas where we controlled our own destiny—that is, the
reporting, accounting, and payment changes, as well as our
marketing plan—we were able to move fast. And in the areas
where we had to make very minor changes to Obidos and acb,
we moved painfully slowly. Why was that? Dependencies.
     The variations in technical dependencies are endless, but
each one binds teams more tightly together, turning a rapid
sprint into a stumbling sack race where only the most
coordinated will cross the finish line. When a software
architecture includes a large number of technical
dependencies, it is said to be tightly coupled, a bad thing that
frustrates all involved when you are trying to double and triple
the size of the software team. Amazon’s code had been
designed in such a way that it became more tightly coupled
over time.
                Organizational Dependencies
Our organizational chart created extra work in a similar
fashion, forcing teams to slog through layers of people to
secure project approval, prioritization, and allocation of shared
resources that were required to deliver a project. These
organizational dependencies were just as debilitating as the
technical ones.
     The org chart had ballooned as we created teams for each
new product category, geographic location, and function (e.g.,
Consumer Electronics, Amazon Japan, Graphic Design).
When the company was smaller, you could enlist help or
check for possible conflicts by just asking around—everyone
often knew each other fairly well. At scale, the same task
became long and laborious. You’d have to figure out who you
needed to talk to, whether their office was in your building,
and who they reported to. Maybe you’d track them down
yourself, but more often you’d have to ask your manager, who
in turn would ask their managers or their peers—and every
step took time. Success connected you with some person (or
their manager) you’d ask to listen to your pitch and commit
resources to your project. They would often be doing the same
thing at the same time for their own projects. In any case, they
might be reluctant to slow themselves down on your behalf.
You often had to do this several times for a given project, and
often without success.
     If your team had the resources other people needed, such
requests could also come your way—sometimes many in a
single week. You had to balance each one against the priorities
you already had, then decide which (if any) you could support
based on your own best judgment about their merits. To get a
sense of how much drag these escalating organizational
dependencies were adding to the average Amazon project, you
had to multiply that effort as much as five or ten times. Just
like our software, many of our org structures had become
tightly coupled and were holding us back.
     Too much of any kind of dependency not only slows
down the pace of innovation but also creates a dispiriting
second-order effect: disempowered teams. When a team is
tasked with solving a particular problem and is judged by their
solution, they should expect to have the tools and authority to
complete the job. Their success should be a source of team
pride. But Amazon’s tightly coupled software architecture and
org structure too often made owners heavily dependent on
outside teams, over whom they had little influence. Few teams
were fully in control of their own destiny, and many were
frustrated by the slow pace of delivery that was beyond their
control. Disempowered workers increasingly became
discouraged, unable to pursue innovative ideas in the face of
so much structural resistance.
       Better Coordination Was the Wrong Answer
Resolving a dependency usually requires coordination and
communication. And when your dependencies keep growing,
requiring more and more coordination, it’s only natural to try
speeding things up by improving your communication. There
are countless approaches to managing cross-team
coordination, ranging from formalized practices to hiring
dedicated coordinators—and it seemed as though we looked at
them all.
     At last we realized that all this cross-team communication
didn’t really need refinement at all—it needed elimination.
Where was it written in stone that every project had to involve
so many separate entities? It wasn’t just that we had had the
wrong solution in mind; rather, we’d been trying to solve the
wrong problem altogether. We didn’t yet have the new
solution, but we finally grasped the true identity of our
problem: the ever-expanding cost of coordination among
teams. This change in our thinking was of course nudged
along by Jeff. In my tenure at Amazon I heard him say many
times that if we wanted Amazon to be a place where builders
can build, we needed to eliminate communication, not
encourage it. When you view effective communication across
groups as a “defect,” the solutions to your problems start to
look quite different from traditional ones. He suggested that
each software team should build and clearly document a set of
application program interfaces (APIs) for all their
systems/services. An API is a set of routines, protocols, and
tools for building software applications and defining how
software components should interact. In other words, Jeff’s
vision was that we needed to focus on loosely coupled
interaction via machines through well-defined APIs rather than
via humans through emails and meetings. This would free
each team to act autonomously and move faster.
NPI—An Early Response to Organizational Dependencies
Meanwhile, we faced no shortage of good business ideas.
Indeed, we had many more ideas than we could support or
execute—we could only take on a few big projects each
quarter. Trying to prioritize which ones to pursue drove us
crazy. We needed a way to ensure that our scarce resources,
which mostly meant the software engineering teams, were
working on the initiatives that would make the biggest impact
to the business.
     This gave rise to a process called New Project Initiatives
(NPI), whose job was global prioritization. Not global in the
sense of geographic expansion, but rather in comparing every
project under consideration to decide which ones were worthy
of doing immediately and which ones could wait. Such global
prioritization proved to be very hard indeed. Which is more
important, launching a cost-saving project for fulfillment
centers, adding a feature that might boost sales in the apparel
category, or cleaning up old code we cannot do without to
extend its practical life? There were so many unknowns and so
many long-term projections to compare. Could we be sure of
the extent of the cost savings? Did we know how much sales
might rise with this new feature in the expected case? How
could we estimate the financial payback of the restructured
code, or the cost of an unknown number of outages if the old
code began to fail? Every project carried risks, and most
competed for the same set of scarce resources.

Force-Ranking Our Options
NPI was our best solution at the time for ranking our global
options intelligently and picking the winners. No one liked it,
but it was a necessary evil given our organization then.
     Here’s how NPI worked: Once every quarter, teams
submitted projects they thought were worth doing that would
require resources from outside their own team—which
basically meant almost every project of reasonable size. It took
quite a bit of work to prepare and submit an NPI request. You
needed a “one-pager”; a written summary of the idea; an initial
rough estimate of which teams would be impacted; a consumer
adoption model, if applicable; a P&L; and an explanation of
why it was strategically important for Amazon to embark on
the initiative immediately. Just proposing the idea represented
a resource-intensive undertaking.
     A small group would screen all the NPI submissions. A
project could be cut in the first round if it wasn’t thoroughly
explained, didn’t address a core company goal, didn’t
represent an acceptable cost/benefit ratio, or obviously
wouldn’t make the cut. The more promising ideas would move
to the next round for a more detailed technical and financial
scoping exercise. This step typically happened in real time in a
conference room where a leader from each major area could
review the project submission, ask any clarifying questions,
and provide an estimate on how many resources from their
area would be required to complete the project as stated.
Usually 30 or 40 attendees were on hand to review a full list of
projects, which made for long, long meetings—yuck.
    Afterward, the smaller NPI core group would true up the
resource and payback estimates, then decide which projects
would actually go forward. After that group met, every project
team leader would receive an email about their submission that
came in one of three forms. From best to worst they were:
    “Congratulations, your project has been approved! The
    other teams you need to help complete your project are
    ready to get started too.”
    “The bad news is that your project was not chosen, but the
    good news is that none of the approved NPI projects
    require work from you.”
    “We’re sorry that none of your projects were approved
    and you were probably counting on them to hit your team
    goals. There are, however, approved NPI projects for
    other teams that require resources from you. You must
    fully staff those NPI projects before staffing any of your
    other internal projects. Best of luck.”
Choosing Our Priorities
A lot of NPI projects were presented with large error bars—
that is, an unhelpfully broad range of the potential costs and of
the predicted return. “We anticipate this feature will generate
between $4 million on the low side and $20 million on the
high side and expect it will take 20 to 40 person-months to
develop.” It’s not easy to compare projects with estimates like
that.
     The toughest job for many project teams was to accurately
predict consumer behavior. Time and time again, we learned
that consumers would behave in ways we hadn’t imagined
during the development phase—especially for brand-new
features or products. Even the most rigorous models we used
to predict consumer adoption could be well off the mark,
leading to long, vigorous debates that never quite felt
conclusive. (See, for example, our story of the Fire Phone in
the introduction to part two. It’s not like we thought, “Here’s a
dud, but we’re going to launch it anyway.” We had high
expectations for this product in which we had invested a great
deal of time and money!)
    In an effort to improve our assumptions, we established a
feedback loop to measure how well a team’s estimates
matched its eventual results, adding another layer of
accountability. Jeff Wilke stashed away paper copies of
approved NPI proposals so he could check the predictions
against actual results later. The added transparency and
accountability helped bring team estimates closer to reality,
but ultimately not close enough. A year or more could pass
between the first presentation and measurable results, which is
a long time to wait in order to learn what adjustments are
needed.
     All in all, the NPI process was not beloved. If you
mention NPI to any Amazonian who went through it, you’re
likely to get a grimace and maybe a horror story or two.
Sometimes you got lucky, your project was approved, and you
could move forward smoothly enough. Too often, however,
your plans were thwarted. Instead of doing vital work on
something you owned, you’d be assigned to support another
team’s project while still taking care of everything that was
left on your plate. “Getting NPI’d,” as we called it, meant that
your team was literally getting nothing for something.
     The NPI process was deflating for morale. But figuring
out how to “boost morale” is not Amazonian. Other companies
have morale-boosting projects and groups with names like
“Fun Club” and “Culture Committee.” They view morale as a
problem to be solved by company-sponsored entertainment
and social interaction. Amazon’s approach to morale was to
attract world-class talent and create an environment in which
they had maximum latitude to invent and build things to
delight customers—and you can’t do that if every quarter
some faceless process like NPI smites your best ideas. In
chapter six, we discuss Amazon’s belief that focusing on
controllable input metrics instead of output metrics drives
meaningful growth. Morale is, in a sense, an output metric,
whereas freedom to invent and build is an input metric. If you
clear the impediment to building, morale takes care of itself.
     Our question was, “How do we do that?” It’s not that the
participants in the NPI arena—or the DB Cabal for that matter
—fell short or had nefarious motives. They were all top-notch,
talented, hard-working people who were swimming against a
riptide of dependencies. If you’re faced with a challenge that’s
growing exponentially, meeting it head-on with equal but
opposing force just locks you into exponentially growing cost
—a dead-end strategy. We needed to find some way to stem
the tide of challenges, and we finally realized that the most
effective way to do that was to recognize the assumption we’d
been operating under was incorrect. Amazon ultimately
invented its way around the problem by cutting off
dependencies at the source.
         First Proposed Solution: Two-Pizza Team
Seeing that our best short-term solutions would not be enough,
Jeff proposed that instead of finding new and better ways to
manage our dependencies, we figure out how to remove them.
We could do this, he said, by reorganizing software engineers
into smaller teams that would be essentially autonomous,
connected to other teams only loosely, and only when
unavoidable. These largely independent teams could do their
work in parallel. Instead of coordinating better, they could
coordinate less and build more.
     Now came the hard part—how exactly could we
implement such a tectonic shift? Jeff assigned CIO Rick
Dalzell to figure it out. Rick solicited ideas from people
throughout the company and synthesized them, then came
back with a clearly defined model that people would talk about
for years to come: the two-pizza team, so named because the
teams would be no larger than the number of people that could
be adequately fed by two large pizzas. With hundreds of these
two-pizza teams eventually in place, Rick believed that we
would innovate at a dazzling pace. The experiment would
begin in the product development organization and, if it
worked, would spread throughout the rest of the company. He
laid out the defining characteristics, workflow, and
management as follows.
    A two-pizza team will:

     Be small. No more than ten people.
     Be autonomous. They should have no need to
     coordinate with other teams to get their work done. With
     the new service-based software architecture in place, any
     team could simply refer to the published application
     programming interfaces (APIs) for other teams. (More
     on this new software architecture to follow.)
     Be evaluated by a well-defined “fitness function.”
     This is the sum of a weighted series of metrics.
     Example: a team that is in charge of adding selection in
     a product category might be evaluated on:
      a) how many new distinct items were added for the period (50 percent
         weighting)
      b) how many units of those new distinct items were sold (30 percent
         weighting)
      c) how many page views those distinct items received (20 percent
         weighting)

     Be monitored in real time. A team’s real-time score on
     its fitness function would be displayed on a dashboard
     next to all the other two-pizza teams’ scores.
     Be the business owner. The team will own and be
     responsible for all aspects of its area of focus, including
     design, technology, and business results. This paradigm
     shift eliminates the all-too-often heard excuses such as,
     “We built what the business folks asked us to, they just
     asked for the wrong product,” or “If the tech team had
     actually delivered what we asked for and did it on time,
     we would have hit our numbers.”
     Be led by a multidisciplined top-flight leader. The
     leader must have deep technical expertise, know how to
     hire world-class software engineers and product
     managers, and possess excellent business judgment.
     Be self-funding. The team’s work will pay for itself.
     Be approved in advance by the S-Team. The S-Team
     must approve the formation of every two-pizza team.

    As with any major innovation at Amazon, this plan was
merely the beginning. Some of its tenets endured, some
evolved, and some perished over the course of several years.
The most important of these adaptations are worth exploring
here in more detail.

Tearing Down Monoliths
“Be autonomous.” Sounds simple, doesn’t it? In fact, it would
be hard to overstate the effort we expended to free these teams
from the constraints that bound them so tightly at the
beginning. The effort would necessitate major changes to the
way we wrote, built, tested, and deployed our software, how
we stored our data, and how we monitored our systems to keep
them running twenty-four hours a day, seven days a week. The
details are numerous and interesting in their own right, but
most fall well beyond the scope of this book. One major effort
is worth recounting in some detail, however, because it was
both vital and extremely difficult for us to achieve.
    Just as two-pizza teams replaced a single large
organization with something faster and more flexible, a
comparable reorganization was overdue for much of the
Amazon software architecture to enable us to achieve Rick’s
“be autonomous” vision. In a 2006 interview by Jim Gray,
Amazon CTO Werner Vogels recalled another watershed
moment:
    We went through a period of serious introspection and
    concluded that a service-oriented architecture would give
    us the level of isolation that would allow us to build many
    software components rapidly and independently. By the
    way, this was way before service-oriented was a
    buzzword. For us service orientation means encapsulating
    the data with the business logic that operates on the data,
    with the only access through a published service interface.
    No direct database access is allowed from outside the
    service, and there’s no data sharing among the services.3
     That’s a lot to unpack for non–software engineers, but the
basic idea is this: If multiple teams have direct access to a
shared block of software code or some part of a database, they
slow each other down. Whether they’re allowed to change the
way the code works, change how the data are organized, or
merely build something that uses the shared code or data,
everybody is at risk if anybody makes a change. Managing
that risk requires a lot of time spent in coordination. The
solution is to encapsulate, that is, assign ownership of a given
block of code or part of a database to one team. Anyone else
who wants something from that walled-off area must make a
well-documented service request via an API.4
     Think of it like a restaurant. If you are hungry, you don’t
walk into the kitchen and fix what you want. You ask for a
menu, then choose an item from it. If you want something that
is not on that menu, you can ask the waiter, who will send a
request to the cook. But there is no guarantee you’ll get it.
What happens inside the walled-off area in question is
completely up to the single team that owns it, so long as they
don’t change how information can be exchanged. If change
becomes necessary, the owners publish a revised set of rules—
a new menu, if you will—and all those who rely on them are
notified.
     This new system greatly improved upon the free-for-all it
replaced. For the purposes of this book, suffice it to say that
implementing this improvement meant replacing Obidos, acb,
and many other key pieces of our software infrastructure piece
by piece while it was still running our business nonstop. This
required a major investment in development resources,
systems architecture planning, and great care to ensure that the
monolith continued to stand until its last surviving function
had been replaced by a service. The rolling regeneration of the
way we built and deployed technology was a bold move, an
expensive investment that stretched over several years of
intensive and delicate work.
     Today the advantages of a microservices-based
architecture are well understood, and the approach has been
adopted by many tech companies. The benefits include
improved agility, developer productivity, scalability, and a
better ability to resolve and recover from outages and failures.
In addition, with microservices, it becomes possible to
establish small, autonomous teams that can assume a level of
ownership of their code that isn’t possible with a monolithic
approach. The switch to microservices removed the shackles
that had prevented the Amazon software teams from moving
fast, and enabled the transition to small, autonomous teams.

The First Autonomous Teams
Autonomous teams are built for speed. When they are aligned
toward a common destination, they can go a long way in a
short time. But when they are poorly aligned, the team can
veer far off course just as quickly. So they need to be pointed
in the right direction and have the tools to quickly course-
correct when warranted. That’s why, before any proposed two-
pizza team was approved, they had to meet with Jeff and their
S-Team manager—often more than once—to discuss the
team’s composition, charter, and fitness function.
     For instance, the Inventory Planning team would convene
with Jeff, Jeff Wilke, and me to ensure that they were meeting
the following criteria:

     1. The team had a well-defined purpose. For example, the
        team intends to answer the question, “How much
        inventory should Amazon buy of a given product and
        when should we buy it?”
     2. The boundaries of ownership were well understood.
        For example, the team asks the Forecasting team what
        the demand will be for a particular product at a given
        time, and then uses their answer as an input to make a
        buying decision.
     3. The metrics used to measure progress were agreed
        upon. For example, In-stock Product Pages Displayed
        divided by Total Product Pages Displayed, weighted at
        60 percent; and Inventory Holding Cost, weighted at
        40 percent.

   Importantly, the specifics of how the proposed team
would go about achieving its goal were not discussed at the
meeting. That was the team’s role to figure out for themselves.
     These meetings were a classic example of the Dive Deep
leadership principle. I participated in every one of the Fitness
Function alignment meetings for the first set of two-pizza
teams, which owned things like Forecasting, Customer
Reviews, and Customer Service Tools. We questioned every
metric from every angle, probing how those data would be
collected and how the results would be used to drive the team
accurately toward its goals. These meetings clearly established
expectations and confirmed the team’s readiness. Just as
importantly, they also built up trust between Jeff and the new
team, reinforcing their autonomy—and therefore their
velocity.
     We started with a small number of two-pizza teams so that
we could learn what worked and refine the model before
widespread adoption. One significant lesson became clear
fairly early: each team started out with its own share of
dependencies that would hold them back until eliminated, and
eliminating the dependencies was hard work with little to no
immediate payback. The most successful teams invested much
of their early time in removing dependencies and building
“instrumentation”—our term for infrastructure used to
measure every important action—before they began to
innovate, meaning, add new features.
     For example, the Picking team owned software that
directed workers in the fulfillment centers where to find items
on the shelves. They spent much of their first nine months
systematically identifying and removing dependencies from
upstream areas, like receiving inventory from vendors, and
downstream areas, like packing and shipping. They also built
systems to track every important event that happened in their
area at a detailed, real-time level. Their business results didn’t
improve much while they did so, but once they had removed
dependencies, built their fitness function, and instrumented
their systems, they became a strong example of how fast a
two-pizza team could innovate and deliver results. They
became advocates of this new way of working.
     Other teams, however, put off doing the unglamorous
work of removing their dependencies and instrumenting their
systems. Instead, they focused too soon on the flashier work of
developing new features, which enabled them to make some
satisfying early progress. Their dependencies remained,
however, and the continuing drag soon became apparent as the
teams lost momentum.
     A well-instrumented two-pizza team had another powerful
benefit. They were better at course correcting—detecting and
fixing mistakes as they arose. In the 2016 shareholder letter,
even though he wasn’t explicitly talking about two-pizza
teams, Jeff suggested that “most decisions should probably be
made with somewhere around 70% of the information you
wish you had. If you wait for 90%, in most cases, you’re
probably being slow. Plus, either way, you need to be good at
quickly recognizing and correcting bad decisions. If you’re
good at course correcting, being wrong may be less costly than
you think, whereas being slow is going to be expensive for
sure.”5
      Good examples like the Picking team demonstrated how
long-term thinking, in the form of their up-front investments,
generated compound returns over time. Later teams followed
their lead. Sometimes it’s best to start slow in order to move
fast.
     While it would be nice to trust that a swarm of loosely
coupled, autonomous teams will always make the best tactical
choices to deliver the company’s larger strategic objectives,
that’s sometimes wishful thinking—even with the best of
teams. The OP1 process we described in chapter one still
framed the autonomy of these teams by aligning them with
company strategy, giving them their initial bearing toward
upcoming yearly targets.
     And we came to realize that other limits to autonomy
would also need to remain, with each team still tied to others
by varying levels of dependency. While each two-pizza team
crafted its own product vision and development roadmap,
unavoidable dependencies could arise in the form of cross-
functional projects or top-down initiatives that spanned
multiple teams. For example, a two-pizza team working on
picking algorithms for the fulfillment centers might also be
called upon to add support for robotics being implemented to
move products around the warehouse.
    We found it helpful to think of such cross-functional
projects as a kind of tax, a payment one team had to make in
support of the overall forward progress of the company. We
tried to minimize such intrusions but could not avoid them
altogether. Some teams, through no fault of their own, found
themselves in a higher tax bracket than others. The Order
Pipeline and Payments teams, for example, had to be involved
in almost every new initiative, even though it wasn’t in their
original charters.
              Some Challenges Still Remained
Two-pizza teams were a much-talked-about topic at Amazon,
but as originally defined, they didn’t spread throughout the
company as completely as some other new ideas had. While
they showed great potential to improve the way Amazon
worked, they also exhibited some shortcomings that limited
their success and broader applicability.

Two-Pizza Teams Worked Best in Product Development
We weren’t sure how far to take the two-pizza team concept,
and at the beginning it was planned solely as a reorganization
of product development. Seeing its early success in speeding
up innovation, we wondered whether it might also work in
retail, legal, HR, and other areas. The answer turned out to be
no, because those areas did not suffer from the tangled
dependencies that had hampered Amazon product
development. Therefore, implementing two-pizza teams in
those orgs would not increase speed.

Fitness Functions Were Actually Worse Than Their
Component Metrics
Two-pizza teams had been meant to increase the velocity of
product development, with custom-tailored fitness functions
serving as the directional component of each team’s velocity.
By pointing each team in the right direction and alerting them
early if they drifted off course, fitness functions were
supposed to align the team uniquely to its goals. We tried them
out for more than a year, but fitness functions never really
delivered on their promise for a couple of important reasons.
     First, teams spent an inordinate amount of time struggling
with how to construct the most meaningful fitness function.
Should the formula be 50 percent for Metric A plus 30 percent
for Metric B plus 20 percent for Metric C? Or should it be 45
percent for Metric A plus 40 percent for Metric B plus 15
percent for Metric C? You can imagine how easy it was to get
lost in those debates. The discussions became less useful and
ultimately distracting—just another argument that people
needed to win.
     Second, some of these overly complicated functions
combined seven or more metrics, a few of which were
composite numbers built from their own submetrics. When
graphed over time, they might describe a trend line that went
up and to the right, but what did that mean? It was often
impossible to discern what the team was doing right (or
wrong) and how they should respond to the trend. Also, the
relative weightings could change over time as business
conditions changed, obscuring historic trends altogether.
     We eventually reverted to relying directly on the
underlying metrics instead of the fitness function. After
experimenting over many months across many teams, we
realized that as long as we did the up-front work to agree on
the specific metrics for a team, and we agreed on specific
goals for each input metric, that was sufficient to ensure the
team would move in the right direction. Combining them into
a single, unifying indicator was a very clever idea that simply
didn’t work.

Great Two-Pizza Team Leaders Proved to Be Rarities
The original idea was to create a large number of small teams,
each under a solid, multidisciplined, frontline manager and
arranged collectively into a traditional, hierarchical org chart.
The manager would be comfortable mentoring and diving
deep in areas ranging from technical challenges to financial
modeling and business performance. Although we did identify
a few such brilliant managers, they turned out to be
notoriously difficult to find in sufficient numbers, even at
Amazon. This greatly limited the number of two-pizza teams
we could effectively deploy, unless we relaxed the constraint
of forcing teams to have direct-line reporting to such rare
leaders.
    We found instead that two-pizza teams could also operate
successfully in a matrix organization model, where each team
member would have a solid-line reporting relationship to a
functional manager who matched their job description—for
example, director of software development or director of
product management—and a dotted-line reporting relationship
to their two-pizza manager. This meant that individual two-
pizza team managers could lead successfully even without
expertise in every single discipline required on their team.
This functional matrix ultimately became the most common
structure, though each two-pizza team still devised its own
strategies for choosing and prioritizing its projects.

Sometimes You Need More Than Two Pizzas
We all agreed at the outset that a smaller team would work
better than a larger one. But we later came to realize that the
biggest predictor of a team’s success was not whether it was
small but whether it had a leader with the appropriate skills,
authority, and experience to staff and manage a team whose
sole focus was to get the job done.
     Now free of its initial size limits, the two-pizza team
clearly needed a new name. Nothing catchy came to mind, so
we leaned into our geekdom and chose the computer science
term “single-threaded,” meaning you only work on one thing
at a time. Thus, “single-threaded leaders” and “separable,
single-threaded teams” were born.
   Bigger and Better Still—The Single-Threaded Leader
Even though the two-pizza model hadn’t taken root as quickly
as we’d planned, nor had it spread across the organization as
far as we’d hoped, the experiment showed enough promise
that Jeff and the S-Team had the patience and discipline to
stick with it. We learned as we went, adapting and refining the
idea of two-pizza teams until, in the end, we had something far
more capable.
    What was originally known as a two-pizza team leader
(2PTL) evolved into what is now known as a single-threaded
leader (STL). The STL extends the basic model of separable
teams to deliver their key benefits at any scale the project
demands. Today, despite their initial success, few people at
Amazon still talk about two-pizza teams.
    We say that the STL is bigger and better, but better than
what? Certainly it’s an improvement on the two-pizza team it
evolved from, but is it better than other alternatives too? To
answer that question, let’s look at a more common approach to
developing something new.
     Typically an executive, assigned to drive some innovation
or initiative, would turn to one of his reports—possibly a
director or senior manager—who might have responsibility for
five of the executive’s 26 total initiatives. The executive would
ask the director to identify one of those direct reports—let’s
say a project manager—who would add the project to their to-
do list. The PM, in turn, would prevail upon an engineering
director to see if one of their dev teams could squeeze the
work into their dev schedule. Amazon’s SVP of Devices, Dave
Limp, summed up nicely what might happen next: “The best
way to fail at inventing something is by making it somebody’s
part-time job.”6
     Amazon learned the hard way how this lack of a single-
threaded leader could hinder them in getting new initiatives off
the ground. One example is Fulfillment by Amazon (FBA).
Initially known as Self-Service Order Fulfillment (SSOF), its
purpose was to offer Amazon’s warehouse and shipping
services to merchants. Rather than handling the storing,
picking, packing, and shipping themselves, the merchants
would send products to Amazon, and we would handle the
logistics from there. The executives in the retail and operations
teams thought this was a big, interesting idea, but for well over
a year it did not gain significant traction. It was always
“coming soon,” but it never actually arrived.
     Finally, in 2005, Jeff Wilke asked Tom Taylor, then a VP,
to drop his other responsibilities and gave him approval to hire
and staff a team. Only then did SSOF take off, eventually
morphing into Fulfillment by Amazon. FBA launched in
September 2006 and became a huge success. Third-party
sellers loved it because, by offering them warehouse space for
their products, Amazon turned warehousing into a variable
cost for them instead of a fixed cost. FBA also enabled third-
party sellers to reap the benefits of participating in Prime,
which in turn improved the customer experience for buyers.
As Jeff said in a letter to shareholders, “In just the last quarter
of 2011, Fulfillment by Amazon shipped tens of millions of
items on behalf of sellers.”7
     The leaders who had been trying to get this service off the
ground before Tom Taylor took it over were exceptionally
capable people, but while they were tending to all their other
responsibilities, they just didn’t have the bandwidth to manage
the myriad details FBA entailed. FBA would have been, at
best, much slower and more difficult to launch if Jeff Wilke
hadn’t freed up Tom to focus on nothing but this one project.
The single-threaded leader concept hadn’t yet been formalized
at Amazon, but Tom became an important forerunner.
     The other crucial component of the STL model is a
separable, single-threaded team being run by a single-
threaded leader like Tom. As Jeff Wilke explains, “Separable
means almost as separable organizationally as APIs are for
software. Single-threaded means they don’t work on anything
else.”8
     Such teams have clear, unambiguous ownership of
specific features or functionality and can drive innovations
with a minimum of reliance or impact upon others. Appointing
a single-threaded leader is necessary but not sufficient. It’s
much more than a simple org chart change. Separable, single-
threaded teams have fewer organizational dependencies than
conventional teams. They clearly demarcate the boundaries of
what they own and where the interests of other teams begin
and end. As former Amazon VP Tom Killalea aptly observed,
a good rule of thumb to see if a team has sufficient autonomy
is deployment—can the team build and roll out their changes
without coupling, coordination, and approvals from other
teams? If the answer is no, then one solution is to carve out a
small piece of functionality that can be autonomous and
repeat.
    A single-threaded leader can head up a small team, but
they can also lead the development of something as large as
Amazon Echo or Digital Music. For example, with Amazon
Echo and Alexa, were it not for the fact that Amazon VP Greg
Hart was assigned to be the single-threaded leader, there might
have been one person in charge of hardware and another in
charge of software for all of Amazon’s devices—but no one
whose job it was to create and launch Amazon Echo and Alexa
as a whole. On the contrary, a single-threaded leader of
Amazon Echo and Alexa had the freedom and autonomy to
assess the novel product problems that needed to be solved,
decide what and how many teams they needed, how the
responsibilities should be divided up among the teams, and
how big each team should be. And, crucially, since the
technical dependencies problem had been solved, that leader
no longer had to check with a prohibitively large number of
people for each software change they needed to make.
                        The Payback
It took us a while to arrive at the approach of single-threaded
leaders and separable, single-threaded teams, and we went
through a number of solutions along the way that ultimately
didn’t last—like NPIs and two-pizza teams. But it was worth
it, because where we landed was an approach to innovation
that is so fundamentally sound and adaptable that it survives at
Amazon to this day. This journey is also a great example of
another phrase you’ll hear at Amazon: be stubborn on the
vision but flexible on the details.
     The STL delivers high-velocity innovation, which in turn
makes Amazon nimble and responsive even at its now-
massive scale. Free of the hindrance of excess dependencies,
innovators at every level can experiment and innovate faster,
leading to more sharply defined products and a higher level of
engagement for their creators. Ownership and accountability
are much easier to establish under the STL model, keeping
teams properly focused and accurately aligned with company
strategies. While all these positive outcomes were possible
before the first autonomous single-threaded team was created,
now they have become the natural and expected consequence
of this very Amazonian model for innovation.
4
Communicating
Narratives and the Six-Pager
    The eerie silence at the beginning of Amazon meetings. The ban on
    PowerPoint and the shift to narratives. How narratives produce clear
    thinking and stimulate valuable discussion. How to write an effective six-
    pager. The payoff: the “narrative information multiplier.”




If you were to ask recently hired Amazon employees about
what has surprised them most in their time at the company so
far, one response would certainly top the list:
   “The eerie silence in the first 20 minutes of many
meetings.”
     At Amazon, after a brief exchange of greetings and
chitchat, everyone sits at the table, and the room goes
completely silent. Silent, as in not a word. The reason for the
silence? A six-page document that everyone must read before
discussion begins.
     Amazon relies far more on the written word to develop
and communicate ideas than most companies, and this
difference makes for a huge competitive advantage. In this
chapter we’ll talk about how and why Amazon made the
transition from the use of PowerPoint (or any other
presentation software) to written narratives, and how it has
benefited the company—and can benefit yours too.
     Amazon uses two main forms of narrative. The first is
known as the “six-pager.” It is used to describe, review, or
propose just about any type of idea, process, or business. The
second narrative form is the PR/FAQ. This one is specifically
linked to the Working Backwards process for new product
development. In this chapter, we’ll focus on the six-pager and
in the following chapter we’ll look at the PR/FAQ.
        The End of PowerPoint at S-Team Meetings
One of my (Colin’s) roles as Jeff’s shadow in the early days of
the company was to manage the agenda of the weekly S-Team
meeting, which took place every Tuesday and typically ran for
four hours. Roughly 80 percent of the time was focused on
execution, namely how the company was making progress
toward achieving the S-Team goals. In the S-Team meeting,
we would select between two and four S-Team goals and do a
deep dive on their progress. The meeting was expensive:
between preparation and attendance, it consumed at least half
a day each week for the top leaders in the company. Given the
types of decisions made in the meeting, the stakes were high.
     In those early days, each deep dive would begin with a
presentation by the relevant team on the status of their work
toward the goal. Typically, this involved an oral presentation
by one or more of the team members backed up by PowerPoint
slides. Too often, we found, the presentations did not serve the
purpose for which they were intended. The format often made
it difficult to evaluate the actual progress and prevented the
presentations from proceeding as planned. The deep dives
were, in short, frustrating, inefficient, and error prone for both
the presenter and the audience.
     Jeff and I often discussed ways to improve the S-Team
meetings. Shortly after a particularly difficult presentation in
early 2004, we had some downtime on a business flight (no
Wi-Fi yet on planes), so we read and discussed an essay called
“The Cognitive Style of PowerPoint: Pitching Out Corrupts
Within,” by Edward Tufte, a Yale professor who is an
authority on the visualization of information.1 Tufte identified
in one sentence the problem we’d been experiencing: “As
analysis becomes more causal, multivariate, comparative,
evidence based, and resolution-intense,” he writes, “the more
damaging the bullet list becomes.” That description fit our
discussions at the S-Team meetings: complex, interconnected,
requiring plenty of information to explore, with greater and
greater consequences connected to decisions. Such analysis is
not well served by a linear progression of slides that makes it
difficult to refer one idea to another, sparsely worded bits of
text that don’t fully express an idea, and visual effects that are
more distracting than enlightening. Rather than making things
clear and simple, PowerPoint can strip the discussion of
important nuance. In our meetings, even when a presenter
included supporting information in the notes or accompanying
audio, the PowerPoint presentation was never enough.
     Besides, the Amazon audience of tightly scheduled,
experienced executives was eager to get to the heart of the
matter as quickly as possible. They would pepper the presenter
with questions and push to get to the punch line, regardless of
the flow of slides. Sometimes the questions did not serve to
clarify a point or move the presentation along but would
instead lead the entire group away from the main argument. Or
some questions might be premature and would be answered in
a later slide, thus forcing the presenter to go over the same
ground twice.
     In his essay, Tufte proposed a solution. “For serious
presentations,” he wrote, “it will be useful to replace
PowerPoint slides with paper handouts showing words,
numbers, data graphics, images together. High-resolution
handouts allow viewers to contextualize, compare, narrate, and
recast evidence. In contrast, data-thin, forgetful displays tend
to make audiences ignorant and passive, and also to diminish
the credibility of the presenter.”
     Tufte offered wise advice on how to get started. “Making
this transition in large organizations requires a straightforward
executive order: From now on your presentation software is
Microsoft Word, not PowerPoint. Get used to it.” That is
essentially what we did.
     While Tufte’s essay wasn’t the sole impetus behind the
move to narratives, it crystallized our thinking. On June 9,
2004, the members of the S-Team received an email with the
following subject line: “No PowerPoint presentations from
now on at S-Team.”2 The message was simple, direct, and
earthshaking: from that day forward, S-Team members would
be required to write short narratives describing their ideas for
presentation at S-Team meetings. PowerPoint was henceforth
banned.
     I (still Colin) was the one who sent the email—at Jeff’s
direction, of course, as he was the only person in the company
who could mandate such a significant change. I felt great after
sending it. We had finally found a way to meaningfully
improve the effectiveness of the S-Team meetings, so I
thought the email would be well received. Boy was I wrong.
The email whipped through the Amazon management ranks,
and the almost instantaneous and near-universal reaction was
basically, “You must be kidding.” That evening and for the
next few days I fielded a flurry of phone calls and a deluge of
emails asking about the change. The outcry was particularly
intense from the S-Team members who were scheduled to
present within the next two weeks. They had to quickly
understand the new narrative process and learn to effectively
use the tools at their disposal. And the fate of a new idea that
may have been months in development was riding on the
outcome of the meeting.
     We probably should not have been surprised by that
reaction. Until that June day in 2004, PowerPoint had been the
default tool for communication of ideas in many meetings at
Amazon, just as it was and still is at many companies.
Everybody knew its delights and perils. What could be more
exhilarating than listening to a charismatic executive deliver a
rousing presentation backed up by snappy phrases, dancing
clip art, and cool slide transitions? So what if you couldn’t
remember the details a few days later? And what could be
worse than suffering through a badly organized presentation
using a drab template and tons of text in a font too small to
read? Or, worse still, squirming as a nervous presenter
stumbled and faltered through slide after slide?
     The real risk with using PowerPoint in the manner we did,
however, was the effect it could have on decision-making. A
dynamic presenter could lead a group to approve a dismal
idea. A poorly organized presentation could confuse people,
produce discussion that was rambling and unfocused, and rob
good ideas of the serious consideration they deserved. A
boring presentation could numb the brain so completely that
people tuned out or started checking their email, thereby
missing the good idea lurking beneath the droning voice and
uninspiring visuals.
     It would take time for people to get the hang of the
narrative form. First, there were no codified rules about what
the narrative should be, and Jeff offered a short explanation of
the reason behind the change.
    The reason writing a good 4 page memo is harder than
    “writing” a 20 page powerpoint is because the narrative
    structure of a good memo forces better thought and better
    understanding of what’s more important than what, and
    how things are related.
        Powerpoint-style presentations somehow give
    permission to gloss over ideas, flatten out any sense of
    relative importance, and ignore the interconnectedness of
    ideas.3
     The first few narratives were laughably poor when
evaluated by today’s standards. Some teams ignored the length
limit, which was meant to keep the narratives brief enough so
they could be read in the meeting itself. Enthusiastic teams,
who felt their idea could not be adequately expressed in such a
limited space, came in with 30 or 40 pages of prose. When
authors learned that we were serious about a page limit, some
squeezed as much as text onto a page as possible, using tiny
fonts, reducing the width of the margins, and single-spacing
the text. We wanted to go back to the benefits of writing, but
not to the look of a sixteenth-century document.
     Gradually, we settled on a standard format. Maximum
length: six pages, no desperate tricks in formatting please.
Appendices with further information or supporting detail could
be attached, but would not be required reading in the meeting
itself.
              How to Write an Effective Six-Pager
Six-pagers vary widely, so rather than attempting a complete
style guide (impossible), we’ve written one in a style we might
submit today, if we were recommending for the first time that
we use narratives instead of PowerPoint at S-Team meetings—
a six-pager about six-pagers. Some of this is a pared-down
version of what you’ve just read, which may help you see how
we squeeze big ideas into the format of a true six-pager. (Note:
this example would fit easily onto six pages of 8.5 x 11–inch
paper, single-spaced in 11-point type, but reproduction in this
book may run longer due to formatting differences.)
                    Dear PowerPoint: It’s Not You, It’s Us
    Our decision-making process simply has not kept up with the rapid
    growth in the size and complexity of our business. We therefore
    advocate that, effective immediately, we stop using PowerPoint at S-
    Team meetings and start using six-page narratives instead.

                   What’s Wrong with Using PowerPoint?
    S-Team meetings typically begin with a PowerPoint (PP) presentation
    that describes some proposal or business analysis for consideration.
    The style of the deck varies from team to team, but all share the
    constraints imposed by the PowerPoint format. No matter how
    complex or nuanced the underlying concepts, they are presented as a
    series of small blocks of text, short bullet-pointed lists, or graphics.
        Even the most ardent PP fans acknowledge that too much
    information actually spoils the deck. Amazon’s bestselling book on
    PowerPoint describes three categories of slides:

    1. 75 words or more: A dense discussion document or white paper that is
       not suitable for a presentation—it’s better distributed in advance and read
       before the meeting.
    2. 50 words or so: A crutch for the presenter who uses it as a teleprompter,
       often turning away from an audience while reading aloud.
    3. Even fewer words: A proper presentation slide, used to visually
       reinforce primarily spoken content. The presenter must invest time to
       develop and rehearse this type of content.*

        One widely accepted rule of thumb, the so-called 6x6 Rule, sets a
    maximum of six bullet points, each with no more than six words. Other
    guidelines suggest limiting text to no more than 40 words per slide,
    and presentations to no more than 20 slides. The specific numbers
    vary, but the theme—limiting information density—is a constant.
    Taken as a whole, these practices point to a consensus: there’s only so
much information one can fit into a PP deck without confusing, or
losing, one’s audience. The format forces presenters to condense their
ideas so far that important information is omitted.
    Pressed against this functional ceiling, yet needing to convey the
depth and breadth of their team’s underlying work, a presenter—
having spent considerable time pruning away content until it fits the PP
format—fills it back in, verbally. As a result, the public speaking skills
of the presenter, and the graphics arts expertise behind their slide deck,
have an undue—and highly variable—effect on how well their ideas
are understood. No matter how much work a team invests in
developing a proposal or business analysis, its ultimate success can
therefore hinge upon factors irrelevant to the issue at hand.
    We’ve all seen presenters interrupted and questioned mid-
presentation, then struggle to regain their balance by saying things like,
“We’ll address that in a few slides.” The flow becomes turbulent, the
audience frustrated, the presenter flustered. We all want to deep dive
on important points but have to wait through the whole presentation
before being satisfied that our questions won’t be answered somewhere
later on. In virtually every PP presentation, we have to take
handwritten notes throughout in order to record the verbal give-and-
take that actually supplies the bulk of the information we need. The
slide deck alone is usually insufficient to convey or serve as a record of
the complete argument at hand.

                            Our Inspiration
Most of us are familiar with Edward Tufte, author of the seminal (and
Amazon bestselling) book The Visual Display of Quantitative
Information. In an essay titled “The Cognitive Style of PowerPoint:
Pitching Out Corrupts Within,” Tufte encapsulates our difficulties
precisely:
   As analysis becomes more causal, multivariate, comparative,
   evidence based, and resolution-intense, the more damaging the
   bullet list becomes.
     This certainly describes S-Team meetings: complex,
interconnected, requiring plenty of information to explore, with greater
and greater consequences connected to decisions. Such analysis is not
well served by a linear progression of slides, a presentation style that
makes it difficult to refer one idea to another, to fully express an idea
in sparsely worded bits of text, and to enlighten instead of distract with
visual effects. Rather than making things clear and simple, PowerPoint
is stripping our discussions of important nuance.
    Tufte’s essay proposes a solution. “For serious presentations,” he
writes, “it will be useful to replace PowerPoint slides with paper
handouts showing words, numbers, data graphics, images together.
High-resolution handouts allow viewers to contextualize, compare,
narrate, and recast evidence. In contrast, data-thin, forgetful displays
tend to make audiences ignorant and passive, and also to diminish the
credibility of the presenter.”
   He goes on: “For serious presentations, replace PP with word-
processing or page-layout software. Making this transition in large
organizations requires a straightforward executive order: From now on
your presentation software is Microsoft Word, not PowerPoint. Get
used to it.” We’ve taken this recommendation to heart, and we now
propose to follow his advice.

          Our Proposal: Banish PP in Favor of Narratives
We propose that we stop using PowerPoint in S-Team meetings
immediately and replace it with a single narrative document. These
narratives may sometimes include graphs and bulleted lists, which are
essential to brevity and clarity, but it must be emphasized: merely
reproducing a PP deck in written form will NOT be acceptable. The
goal is to introduce the kind of complete and self-contained
presentation that only the narrative form makes possible. Embrace it.

           Our Tenet: Ideas, Not Presenters, Matter Most
A switch to narratives places the team’s ideas and reasoning center
stage, leveling the playing field by removing the natural variance in
speaking skills and graphic design expertise that today plays too great
a role in the success of presentations. The entire team can contribute to
the crafting of a strong narrative, reviewing and revising it until it’s at
its very best. It should go without saying—sound decisions draw from
ideas, not individual performance skills.
    The time now spent upon crafting gorgeous, graphically elegant
slide presentations can be recaptured and used for more important
things. We can give back the time and energy now wasted on
rehearsing one’s time at the podium and relieve a major, unnecessary
stressor for many team leaders. It won’t matter whether the presenter is
a great salesperson, a complete introvert, a new hire out of college, or a
VP with 20 years of experience; what matters will be found on the
page.
    Last, the narrative document is infinitely portable and scalable. It is
easy to circulate. Anyone can read it at any time. You don’t need
handwritten notes or a vocal track recorded during the big presentation
to understand its contents. Anyone can edit or make comments on the
document, and they are easily shared in the cloud. The document
serves as its own record.

        The Readers’ Advantage: Information Density and
                    Interconnection of Ideas
One useful metric for comparison is what we call the Narrative
Information Multiplier (tip of the hat to former Amazon VP Jim
Freeman for coining this term). A typical Word document, with text in
Arial 11-point font, contains 3,000–4,000 characters per page. For
comparison, we analyzed the last 50 S-Team PowerPoint slide
presentations and found that they contained an average of just 440
characters per page. This means a written narrative would contain
seven to nine times the information density of our typical PowerPoint
presentation. If you take into account some of the other PowerPoint
limitations discussed above, this multiplier only increases.
     Tufte estimates that people read three times faster than the typical
presenter can talk, meaning that they can absorb that much more
information in a given time while reading a narrative than while
listening to a PP presentation. A narrative therefore delivers much
more information in a much shorter time.
    The Narrative Information Multiplier is itself multiplied when one
considers how many such meetings S-Team members attend in a single
day. A switch to this denser format will allow key decision-makers to
consume much more information in a given period of time than with
the PowerPoint approach.
    Narratives also allow for nonlinear, interconnected arguments to
unfold naturally—something that the rigid linearity of PP does not
permit. Such interconnectedness defines many of our most important
business opportunities. Moreover, better-informed people make higher-
quality decisions, and can deliver better, more detailed feedback on the
presenting teams’ tactical and strategic plans. If our executives are
better informed, at a deeper level, on a wider array of important
company initiatives, we will gain a substantial competitive advantage
over executives elsewhere who rely on traditional low-bandwidth
methods of communication (e.g., PP).

  The Presenters’ Advantage: Forces Greater Clarity of Thought
We know that writing narratives will likely prove to be harder work
than creating the PP presentations that they will replace; this is actually
positive. The act of writing will force the writer to think and synthesize
more deeply than they would in the act of crafting a PP deck; the idea
on paper will be better thought out, especially after the author’s entire
team has reviewed it and offered feedback. It’s a daunting task to get
all the relevant facts and all one’s salient arguments into a coherent,
understandable document—and it should be.
    Our goal as presenters is not to merely introduce an idea but to
demonstrate that it’s been carefully weighed and thoroughly analyzed.
Unlike a PP deck, a solid narrative can—and must—demonstrate how
its many, often disparate, facts and analyses are interconnected. While
an ideal PP presentation can do this, experience has shown that they
rarely do in practice.
    A complete narrative should also anticipate the likely objections,
concerns, and alternate points of view that we expect our team to
deliver. Writers will be forced to anticipate smart questions, reasonable
objections, even common misunderstandings—and to address them
proactively in their narrative document. You simply cannot gloss over
an important topic in a narrative presentation, especially when you
know it’s going to be dissected by an audience full of critical thinkers.
While this may seem a bit intimidating at first, it merely reflects our
long-standing commitment to thinking deeply and correctly about our
opportunities.
    The old essay-writing adage “State, support, conclude” forms the
basis for putting a convincing argument forward. Successful narratives
will connect the dots for the reader and thus create a persuasive
argument, rather than presenting a disconnected stream of bullet points
and graphics that leave the audience to do all the work. Writing
persuasively requires and enforces clarity of thought that’s even more
vital when multiple teams collaborate on an idea. The narrative form
demands that teams be in sync or, if they are not, that they clearly state
in the document where they are not yet aligned.
    Edward Tufte sums up the benefits of narratives over PP with his
own blunt clarity: “PowerPoint becomes ugly and inaccurate because
our thoughts are foolish, but the slovenliness of PowerPoint makes it
easier for us to have foolish thoughts.”

          How to Conduct a Meeting in This New Format
Narratives would be distributed at the start of each meeting and read by
all in attendance during the time normally taken up by the slide deck—
approximately the first 20 minutes. Many will want to take notes, or
annotate their copy, during this time. Once everybody signals their
readiness, conversation about the document begins.
    We know that people read complex information at the rough
average of three minutes per page, which in turn defines the functional
length of a written narrative as about six pages for a 60-minute
meeting. Our recommendation is therefore that teams respect the six-
page maximum. There will no doubt be times when it feels difficult to
condense a complete presentation into this size, but the same limitation
—which is really one of meeting lengths—faces PP presenters as well.
We believe that six pages should be enough, but we will review over
time and revise if necessary.

                              Conclusion
PowerPoint could only carry us so far, and we’re thankful for its
service, but the time has come to move on. Written narratives will
convey our ideas in a deeper, stronger, more capable fashion while
adding a key additional benefit: they will act as a forcing function that
shapes sharper, more complete analysis. Six-page narratives are also
incredibly inclusive communication, precisely because the interaction
between the presenter and audience is zero during reading. No biases
matter other than the clarity of reasoning. This change will strengthen
not just the pitch, but the product—and the company—as well.

                                  FAQ
Q: Most other companies of our size use PowerPoint. Why do we need
  to be different, and what if this switch turns out to be the wrong
  move?
A: In simplest terms, we see a better way. Amazon differs from other
  major companies in ways that help us stand out, including our
  willingness to go where the data lead and seek better ways of doing
  familiar things. If this move doesn’t work out, we’ll do what we
   always do—iterate and refine, or roll it back entirely if that’s what
   the results show us is best.
Q: Why not distribute the narrative ahead of the meeting so we’re
  ready?
A: The short time between distribution and the meeting might not give
   all attendees sufficient time for that task. Also, since the document
   replaces the deck, no time is lost by dedicating this phase of the
   meeting to a silent reading that brings everybody up to speed before
   Q&A begins. Last but certainly not least, this gives each presenting
   team the most possible time to complete and refine their
   presentation.
Q: My team has proven to be very good at PP presentations—do we
  HAVE to switch?
A: YES. One danger of an unusually strong PP presentation is that the
   stage presence or charm of the presenter can sometimes
   unintentionally blind the audience to key questions or concerns.
   Slick graphics can distract equally well. Most importantly, we’ve
   shown that even the best use of PP simply cannot deliver the
   completeness and sophistication that narratives can.
Q: What if we put our PP deck into printed form and add some
  extended comments to strengthen and extend the information
  content?
A: NO. Reproducing PP on paper also reproduces its weaknesses.
  There’s nothing one can do in PP that cannot be done more
  thoroughly, though sometimes less attractively, in a narrative.
Q: Can we still use graphs or charts in our narratives?
A: YES. Most complex issues derive key insights from data and we
  expect that some of that data may be best represented in the form of
  a chart or graph. However, we do not expect that graphics alone can
  make the compelling and complete case we expect from a true
  written narrative. Include them if you must, but don’t let graphics
  predominate.
Q: Six pages feels short. How much can we fit onto a page?
A: The six-page limit acts as a valuable forcing function that ensures
  we only discuss the most important issues. We also set aside 20
  minutes for reading and expect that every attendee can read the
  entire thing during that time. Please don’t fall prey to the temptation
  to fiddle with margins or font size to squeeze more into the
  document. Adding density to stay under the six-page limit works
  against this goal and tempts writers to stray into less important areas
  of consideration.
Q: How will we measure the success of this change?
A: Great question. We have not been able to identify a quantitative
  way to measure the quality of a series of S-Team decisions today,
  nor are we proposing a metric at this time. Comparing the two
  approaches will be a qualitative exercise. We propose implementing
narratives for the next three months and then polling the S-Team to
ask if they’re making better-informed decisions.
         Six-Pagers Vary in Structure and Content
In the mock-up six-pager above, we’ve included two optional
sections that many presenters at Amazon have found helpful.
The first is to call out one or more key tenets that our proposal
relies upon—a foundational element of the reasoning that led
us to make this recommendation. Tenets give the reader an
anchor point from which to evaluate the rest. If the tenet itself
is in dispute, it’s easier to address that directly rather than take
on all the logical steps that derive from that position.
     The second optional section, perhaps more commonly
used, is the inclusion of an FAQ. Strong six-pagers don’t just
make their case, they anticipate counterarguments, points of
contention, or statements that might be easily misinterpreted.
Adding the FAQ to address these saves time and gives the
reader a useful focal point for checking the thoroughness of
the authors’ thinking. (See appendix B for additional FAQ and
tenet examples.)
    We should also note that some six-pagers are longer than
six pages, because they include supporting data or
documentation in appendices—data that’s not usually read
during the meeting.
    Six-page narratives can take many forms. Our mock-up
provides one example, laid out specifically for our topic. We
wouldn’t typically expect to see a section titled “Our
Inspiration,” for instance, even though it serves a useful
purpose in this narrative. Headings and subheadings, graphs or
data tables, and other design elements will be specific to the
individual narrative.
    An Amazon quarterly business review, for instance, might
be broken down like this instead:
    Introduction
    Tenets
    Accomplishments
    Misses
    Proposals for Next Period
    Headcount
    P&L
    FAQ
    Appendices (includes things like supporting data in the
      form of spreadsheets, tables and charts, mock-ups)
     The six-pager can be used to explore any argument or idea
you want to present to a group of people—an investment, a
potential acquisition, a new product or feature, a monthly or
quarterly business update, an operating plan, or even an idea
on how to improve the food at the company cafeteria. It takes
practice to master the discipline of writing these narratives.
First-time writers will do well to review and learn from
successful examples.
                  The New Meeting Format
When the meeting topic is covered by a narrative, it works
best if the entire audience reads the narrative, in the room, at
the beginning of the meeting. The silence can be unsettling at
first, but after you’ve been through the process a few times, it
becomes routine. Even though you cannot hear it, with a well-
written narrative there is a massive amount of useful
information that is being transferred in those 20 minutes.
    We mentioned earlier the estimated reading speed of three
minutes per page, which led to the six-page limit. If yours is a
30-minute meeting, a three-page narrative would therefore be
more appropriate. Our goal has been to leave two-thirds of the
meeting time for discussing what we’ve read.
     Still, people read at different speeds. Some will review the
appendices, some won’t. Some attendees will make comments
in a shared online document, like Bill does, so that all meeting
participants can see everyone’s comments. I (Colin) prefer the
old-fashioned way, making comments on paper so I can lose
myself in the document. This also helps me avoid the
confirmation bias that might arise were I to read the real-time
comments others were adding to the shared document.
Besides, I know I’ll hear everybody’s view soon enough.
     When everyone has read the document, the presenter
takes the floor. First-time presenters often start by saying, “Let
me orally walk you through the document.” Resist that
temptation; it will likely be a waste of time. The whole point
of the written document is to clearly present the reasoning and
to avoid the hazards of live presentation. The attendees have
already walked themselves through the argument.
    Some groups at Amazon go around the room, ask for
high-level feedback, then pore over the document line by line.
Other groups ask a single individual to give all their feedback
on the entire document, then ask the next person in the
audience to do the same. Just pick a method that works for you
—there’s no single correct approach.
    Then the discussion begins, which essentially means that
the audience members ask questions of the presenting team.
They seek clarification, probe intentions, offer insights, and
suggest refinements or alternatives. The presenting team has
put great care and thought into the narrative, and the audience
members have a responsibility to take it seriously. The key
goal of the meeting, after all, is to seek the truth about the
proposed idea or topic. We want that idea to become the best it
can possibly be as a result of any adjustments we make along
with the presenting team.
     During the discussion stage, it’s also important that notes
be taken on behalf of the entire audience, preferably by
someone knowledgeable about the subject who is not the
primary presenter. The presenter is generally too involved in
answering questions to capture effective notes at the same
time. If I don’t see anyone taking notes at the discussion stage,
I will politely pause the meeting and ask who is going to do
so. It’s vital that we capture and record the salient points of the
ensuing discussion, as those comments become part of the
output of the narrative process.
                 Feedback as Collaboration
Providing valuable feedback and insight can prove to be as
difficult as writing the narrative itself. Two of the most
cherished gifts I (Colin) received in my career are pens, given
to me by people whose narratives I had read and commented
on. (I would typically give a printout of the narrative with my
handwritten notes on it to the presenters after the meeting.)
Both people told me that my comments had played a key role
in making their businesses successful. I say this not to boast
but to provide evidence that when the reader takes the
narrative process just as seriously as the writer does, the
comments can have real, significant, and long-lasting impact.
You are not just commenting on a document, you’re helping to
shape an idea, and thereby becoming a key team member for
that business.
     Because examples of excellent six-page narratives are
disseminated throughout the company, and because
expectations about their nature and quality are so well
understood by employees, it rarely happens that a team
presents a substandard narrative at a meeting. I did once
receive a six-pager that was not up to snuff. The team who
wrote it was glossing over hard problems with platitudes. I
politely handed it back to them, said it wasn’t ready to be
discussed, adjourned the meeting, and suggested they use the
time to work on improving the narrative. But, as I said, those
scenarios are extremely rare. Mostly it’s about supporting the
team by giving robust feedback. Jeff has an uncanny ability to
read a narrative and consistently arrive at insights that no one
else did, even though we were all reading the same narrative.
After one meeting, I asked him how he was able to do that. He
responded with a simple and useful tip that I have not
forgotten: he assumes each sentence he reads is wrong until he
can prove otherwise. He’s challenging the content of the
sentence, not the motive of the writer. Jeff, by the way, was
usually among the last to finish reading.
     This approach to critical thinking challenges the team to
question whether the current narrative has it right or if there
are additional fundamental truths to uncover, and if they are
aligned with the Amazon Leadership Principles. For example,
say a narrative reads, “Our customer-friendly returns policy
allows returns up to 60 days from the time of purchase
compared to the 30 days typically offered by our competitors.”
A busy executive doing a cursory read and already thinking
about their next meeting may be content with that statement
and move on. However, a critical reader would challenge the
implicit assumption being made, namely, that the longer
allowable return duration makes the policy customer friendly.
The policy may be better than a competitor’s, but is it actually
customer friendly? Then during the discussion, the critical
reader may ask, “If Amazon is really customer obsessed, why
do we penalize the 99 percent of customers who are honest
and want to return an item by making them wait until our
returns department receives the item to make sure it’s the right
item and that it’s not damaged?” This type of thinking—in
which you assume there is something wrong with the sentence
—led Amazon to create the no-hassle return policy, which
specifies that the customer should get a refund even before
Amazon receives the returned goods. (The refund is reversed
for the small percentage of people who do not send back the
item.) Here is another instance where you don’t need to “have
a Jeff” in order to apply this exacting style of critical thinking
to ideas at your company.
              Final Thoughts About Narratives
Narratives are designed to increase the quantity and quality of
effective communication in your organization—by an order of
magnitude over traditional methods. Creating such solid
narratives requires hard work and some risk-taking. Good ones
take many days to write. The team writing the narrative toils
over the topic, writes its first draft, circulates and reviews and
iterates and repeats, then finally takes the vulnerable step of
saying to their management and their peers, “Here’s our best
effort. Tell us where we fell short.” At first this openness can
prove intimidating.
     But as we’ve seen, this model imposes duties and
expectations upon the audience as well. They must objectively
and thoroughly evaluate the idea, not the team or the pitch, and
suggest ways to improve it. The work product of the meeting
is ultimately a joint effort of the presenter and their audience—
thinking that they can all stand behind. Silence in the
discussion stage is the equivalent of agreement with what is
presented, but it carries the same weight as a full-blown
critique.
     In this way, the presenter and audience become integrally
linked to the subsequent success or failure of the initiative, or
the correctness or incorrectness of a team’s business analysis.
When looking at any of Amazon’s big wins, remember that
every major success has gone through multiple narrative
reviews; it’s likely there were meaningful contributions from
the audience as well as the team. On the other hand, for every
failed initiative or analysis that fell short, there were senior
leaders who looked at it and thought, “This makes sense,” or,
“Yes, this should work.” Either way, if the narrative process
works to its fullest potential, you’re all in it together.
5
Working Backwards
Start with the Desired Customer Experience
    Start with the customer and work backwards—harder than it sounds, but a
    clear path to innovating and delighting customers. A useful Working
    Backwards tool: writing the press release and FAQ before you build the
    product.




Most of Amazon’s major products and initiatives since 2004
have one very Amazonian thing in common—they were
created through a process called Working Backwards. It is so
central to the company’s success that we used it as the title for
our book. Working Backwards is a systematic way to vet ideas
and create new products. Its key tenet is to start by defining
the customer experience, then iteratively work backwards
from that point until the team achieves clarity of thought
around what to build. Its principal tool is a second form of
written narrative called the PR/FAQ, short for press
release/frequently asked questions.
     We both witnessed its birth. Colin was in his tenure as
Jeff’s shadow when the Working Backwards process was
launched and he participated in every Working Backwards
review presented to Jeff in the twelve months thereafter. And
Bill’s experience was forged by applying and refining the
Working Backwards concept in the early stages of the process
that led to the development of every digital media product.
               Trial and Error, Then Success
Working as Jeff’s shadow was a bit like drinking from a fire
hose. One surprising challenge of the job I (Colin) noticed
early on was just how much context switching went on each
day. Every week Jeff—and therefore I—had three recurring
meetings: the four-hour S-Team meeting discussed in the
previous chapter, a Weekly Business Review (chapter six), and
an informal Monday-morning S-Team breakfast near the
office. In addition to those, on any given day we’d usually
meet with two to four product teams, where we’d spend
between one and two hours doing a deep dive on new products
and features. Throw in the occasional retail, finance, and
operations updates, plus a fire drill or two requiring immediate
attention, and you have a typical week.
     The product team meetings usually took up a plurality of
the available hours in the week. Jeff and I would need to get
up to speed on where we left off with any given team, so the
first part of each product meeting could be viewed as setup
cost. Then we’d discuss the progress made since our last
meeting, ask and answer questions, discuss new issues or
problems, and agree on next steps that needed to be addressed
before we met with the team again. Despite everyone’s best
intentions, the meetings were often error prone and inefficient.
Sometimes the “setup time” would consume too much of the
meeting: teams, rightfully proud of their recent
accomplishments, wanted to talk about them at the expense of
the important decisions we needed to know about, so by the
time the team recapped their progress, there was not enough
time left for what actually needed to get done. Other times
we’d discover, too late, that the team was not aligned with Jeff
and had veered off path from the previous meeting. When that
happened, it was extremely frustrating for everyone, not to
mention a waste of valuable time.
    As I mentioned earlier, part of my role as Jeff’s shadow
was to help him be as effective as possible. We needed to
improve each stage of these product meetings. We needed to
begin by quickly and accurately caching the right information
during the setup portion of the meeting. Then we had to focus
on the most important issues moving forward. Finally, we had
to map out a clear trajectory for the teams to follow between
the current meeting and the next one. If we could do all that, it
would be a huge win for everyone. We’d be more efficient in
addressing the hard problems, which would help us make
higher-quality decisions more quickly. With that increase in
the speed of good decision-making, Jeff would be able to
connect deeply with a greater number of teams.
     While I was trying to help sort all this out, Jeff was
spending a disproportionate amount of his time on Amazon’s
digital transformation, and on what would eventually become
the first set of Amazon’s cloud computing services.
     So my goal was not easy to reach. It required trial and
error over the course of many months. Jeff tried many
different ideas, some of them seemingly crazy, like starting a
project proposal by writing a user manual or a technical API
guide, relying solely on mock-ups, and other approaches to
visualizing the outcome of a project. I remember getting
frantic calls from nontechnical product managers saying,
“Colin, I’m supposed to meet with Jeff next week. Can you
send me a good example of a user manual? Also, I’m
supposed to write something called an API guide but have no
idea what that is!” We were not committed to any of these
experimental formats and stopped using them when we
realized they were counterproductive.
     In the end, what turned out to work best was relying on
the core Amazon principle of customer obsession and a simple
yet flexible way of writing narrative documents. These two
elements form the Working Backwards process—starting from
the customer experience and working backwards from that by
writing a press release that literally announces the product as if
it were ready to launch and an FAQ anticipating the tough
questions. While this next section describes the evolution of
Working Backwards as seen through the experience of the
digital team, a handful of other teams went through a similar
process. Bringing together the experience of these teams
enabled us to hone and refine Working Backwards into its final
form.
 Where Are the Mock-Ups? Bill and the Launch of Digital
In 2004, I (Bill) was one of the leaders selected to create and
lead Amazon’s digital media organization. I was itching to
launch new stores for digital music, movies, and TV shows. I
also needed to revamp our e-book store, which had gone
online in 2000 and was then a tiny business because books
could only be read on a PC and were more expensive than the
print edition.
    I assumed that the launch process for digital media would
essentially be the same as it was for other new Amazon
businesses—toys, electronics, and tools, for example—which
were known as “category expansions.” For those launches, the
process had been straightforward. The team would gather the
data to build a catalog of items, establish relationships with
vendors to source them, set prices, build content for category
pages, and then launch. It wasn’t easy, but we weren’t
inventing a new store or customer experience from scratch.
    As I was to learn, the process for creating the digital
media business would be quite different because there was so
much more to creating a great digital media customer
experience than simply adding the next retail category to the
Amazon website.
     The first part of the process went as normal. Our team of
three or four people developed plans using the tried-and-true
MBA-style methods of the time. We gathered data about the
size of the market opportunity. We constructed financial
models projecting our annual sales in each category, assuming,
of course, an ever-increasing share of digital sales. We
calculated gross margin assuming a certain cost of goods from
our suppliers. We projected an operating margin based on the
size of the team we would need to support the business. We
outlined the deals we would make with media companies. We
sketched out pricing parameters. We described how the service
would work for customers. We put it all together in crisp-
looking PowerPoint slides (this was still several months before
the switch to       narratives)   and   comprehensive     Excel
spreadsheets.
     We had several meetings with Jeff to present our ideas. At
each one, he would listen carefully to what we had to say. He
would ask probing questions and study the financials. But he
never seemed satisfied or convinced. He found our proposals
light on the details as to how the service would work for
customers. Finally, inevitably, he would ask, “Where are the
mock-ups?”
     Jeff was referring to the visual representations that would
show exactly how the new service would look on the Amazon
website. Mock-ups should be detailed, showing the entire
customer experience from landing page to purchase—screen
design, buttons, text, the sequence of clicks, everything. To
create a meaningful and informative mock-up you have to
think through every element of what the service will offer,
what the experience will be for the customer, how all the
features will work on the page. It requires a ton of work to
think through the whole business and a ton more work to
create and refine the visuals.
     We didn’t have any mock-ups. We just wanted to sell Jeff
on the opportunity, show him that these digital media
businesses could be large, set a budget, and get the green light
to start building the team. We would deal with the customer
experience and other details once we got his go-ahead.
   But if Jeff wants to see mock-ups, you had better make
mock-ups.
     A few weeks later we were back with rough mock-ups in
hand. Jeff listened carefully to our presentation and then began
asking detailed questions about every button, word, link, and
color. For music, he asked how our service would be better
than iTunes. For e-books, he wanted to know how much the e-
books would cost. He asked if people would be able to read
their e-books on a tablet or a phone as well as their PC.
     We answered as we had before. We hadn’t figured out all
that stuff! We just needed his basic approval so we could hire
the team, start negotiating deals with media companies, and
get something launched. That answer did not go over well. At
all. Jeff wanted to know exactly what we were going to build
and how it would be better for customers than the competition.
He wanted us to agree on those details before we started hiring
a team or establishing vendor relationships or building
anything.
    It was clear that half-baked mock-ups were no better,
perhaps worse, than no mock-ups at all. To Jeff, a half-baked
mock-up was evidence of half-baked thinking. And he was
quick to say so, often using strong language to make his point
inescapably clear. Jeff wanted us to know that we couldn’t just
charge down the first available and most convenient path to
chase after this opportunity. We needed to think through our
plan in detail.
     We went back to work. The deeper we dug, the clearer it
became that digital media was going to be unlike any other
Amazon business. The obvious difference was that we would
not be shipping brown boxes to customers but rather
delivering digital bits over wires. That was the least
complicated part. There also had to be a great way for the
customer to manage, read, listen to, or watch those bits once
they had them. This would require custom apps and hardware.
     As we continued to meet with Jeff, we tried various kinds
of spreadsheets and PowerPoint slides to present and explore
our ideas, none of which seemed to be particularly effective.
At some point, I don’t remember exactly when, Jeff suggested
a different approach for the next meeting. Forget the
spreadsheets and slides, he said. Instead, each team member
would write a narrative document. In it, they would describe
their best idea for a device or service for the digital media
business.
     The next meeting arrived, and we all showed up with our
narratives. (As mentioned, ours was one of several teams
involved in the early experimentation with narratives at the
company. They were not yet official Amazon policy.) We
distributed them and read them to ourselves and then discussed
them, one after another. One proposed an e-book reader that
would use new E Ink screen technology. Another described a
new take on the MP3 player. Jeff wrote his own narrative
about a device he called the Amazon Puck. It would sit on
your countertop and could respond to voice commands like,
“Puck. Please order a gallon of milk.” Puck would then place
the order with Amazon.
     The great revelation of this process was not any one of the
product ideas. As we’ve described in chapter four, the
breakthrough was the document itself. We had freed ourselves
of the quantitative demands of Excel, the visual seduction of
PowerPoint, and the distracting effect of personal
performance. The idea had to be in the writing.
    Writing up our ideas was hard work. It required us to be
thorough and precise. We had to describe features, pricing,
how the service would work, why consumers would want it.
Half-baked thinking was harder to disguise on the written page
than in PowerPoint slides. It could not be glossed over through
personal charm in the presentation.
     After we started using the documents, our meetings
changed. There was more meat and more detail to discuss, so
the sessions were livelier and longer. We weren’t so focused
on the pro forma P&L and projected market segment share.
We talked at length about the service itself, the experience, and
which products and services we thought would appeal most to
the customer.
      After a lot of trial and error, and incremental moves in this
direction among many teams involved in the narrative
experiment, Jeff then pushed the idea further. What if we
thought of the product concept narrative as a press release?
Usually, in a conventional organization, a press release is
written at the end of the product development process. The
engineers and product managers finish their work, then “throw
it over the wall” to the marketing and sales people, who look
at the product from the customer point of view, often for the
first time. They’re the ones who write the press release, which
describes the killer features and fantastic benefits and is
designed to create buzz, capture attention, and, above all, get
customers to leap out of their chairs to buy.
    In this standard process, the company works forward. The
leaders come up with a product or business that is great for the
company, and then they try to shoehorn it into meeting
previously unmet customer needs.
     That approach can lead to some undesirable results, Jeff
believed. To make his point, he used Sony as a hypothetical
example. Suppose Sony decides to introduce a new TV. The
sales and marketing group has done its research into customer
preferences and market trends (but not necessarily the
customer experience) and has determined that Sony should
offer a 44-inch TV at a price point of $1,999. The engineering
team, however, has been working on the new TV for quite
some time, and their focus has been on picture quality, which
means higher resolution, and they have not been especially
concerned about price point. The TV they come up with will
cost $2,000 just to manufacture. So there is no way that the
retail price can be $1,999.
     If the two organizations had started the process by writing
a press release, they would have had to agree on the features,
cost, customer experience, and price. Then they could have
worked backwards to figure out what to build, thereby
surfacing the challenges they would face in product
development and manufacturing.
                  The Kindle Press Release
Kindle was the first product offered by the digital media
group, and it, along with several AWS products, was among
the first at Amazon to be created using the press release
approach.
    Kindle was a breakthrough in multiple dimensions. It used
an E Ink display. The customer could shop for, buy, and
download books directly from the device—no need to connect
to a PC or to Wi-Fi. Kindle offered more e-books than any
other device or service available at the time and the price was
lower. Today, that set of features sounds absolutely standard.
In 2007, it was pioneering.
     But Kindle had not started out that way. In the early stages
of its development—before we got started on the press release
approach and when we were still using PowerPoint and Excel
—we had not described a device that could do all these things
from the customer perspective. We had focused on the
technology challenges, business constraints, sales and
financial projections, and marketing opportunities. We were
working forward, trying to invent a product that would be
good for Amazon, the company, not the customer.
     When we wrote a Kindle press release and started
working backwards, everything changed. We focused instead
on what would be great for customers. An excellent screen for
a great reading experience. An ordering process that would
make buying and downloading books easy. A huge selection
of titles. Low prices. We would never have had the
breakthroughs necessary to achieve that customer experience
were it not for the press release process, which forced the team
to invent multiple solutions to customer problems. (We tell the
whole Kindle story in chapter seven.)
    As we got more adept at using the Working Backwards
process, we refined the press release document and added a
second element: the FAQ, frequently asked questions, with, of
course, answers.
    The FAQ section, as it developed, included both external
and internal questions. External FAQs are the ones you would
expect to hear from the press or customers. “Where can I
purchase a new Amazon Echo?” or “How does Alexa work?”
     Internal FAQs are the questions that your team and the
executive leadership will ask. “How can we make a 44-inch
TV with an HD display that can retail for $1,999 at a 25
percent gross margin?” or “How will we make a Kindle reader
that connects to carrier networks to download books without
customers having to sign a contract with a carrier?” or “How
many new software engineers and data scientists do we need
to hire for this new initiative?”
    In other words, the FAQ section is where the writer shares
the details of the plan from a consumer point of view and
addresses the various risks and challenges from internal
operations, technical, product, marketing, legal, business
development, and financial points of view.
    The Working Backwards document became known as the
PR/FAQ.
         The Features and Benefits of the PR/FAQ
The primary point of the process is to shift from an
internal/company perspective to a customer perspective.
Customers are pitched new products constantly. Why will this
new product be compelling enough for customers to take
action and buy it? A common question asked by executives
when reviewing the product features in the PR is “so what?” If
the press release doesn’t describe a product that is
meaningfully better (faster, easier, cheaper) than what is
already out there, or results in some stepwise change in
customer experience, then it isn’t worth building.
      The PR gives the reader the highlights of the customer
experience. The FAQ provides all the salient details of the
customer experience as well as a clear-eyed and thorough
assessment of how expensive and challenging it will be for the
company to build the product or create the service. That’s why
it’s not unusual for an Amazon team to write ten drafts of the
PR/FAQ or more, and to meet with their senior leaders five
times or more to iterate, debate, and refine the idea.
     The PR/FAQ process creates a framework for rapidly
iterating and incorporating feedback and reinforces a detailed,
data-oriented, and fact-based method of decision-making. We
found that it can be used to develop ideas and initiatives—a
new compensation policy, for example—as well as products
and services. Once your organization learns how to use this
valuable tool, it is addicting. People start to use it for
everything.
    Over time, we refined and normalized the specifications
for the PR/FAQ. The press release (PR) portion is a few
paragraphs, always less than one page. The frequently asked
questions (FAQ) should be five pages or less. There are no
awards for extra pages or more words. The goal isn’t to
explain all the excellent work you have done but rather to
share the distilled thinking that has come from that work.
     People who write press releases for a living, or indeed
anyone who has been professionally edited, knows the
importance of boiling things down as much as possible, but the
people in product development don’t always understand this.
In the early days of the PR/FAQ, a common mistake people
made was to assume that more means better. They’d produce
long documents, attach page after page of narrative, insert
charts and tables in an appendix. The virtue of this approach,
at least from the perspective of the writer, is that it shows all
their work and allows them to avoid hard decisions about
what’s important and what’s not—leaving those for the group.
However, restricting the length of the document is, to use a
term that came up when describing the narratives, a forcing
function—we have seen that it develops better thinkers and
communicators.
     The creation of the PR/FAQ starts with the person who
originated either the idea or the project writing a draft. When
it’s in shareable condition, that person sets up a one-hour
meeting with stakeholders to review the document and get
feedback. At the meeting, they distribute the PR/FAQ in either
soft or hard copy, and everyone reads it to themselves. When
they have finished, the writer asks for general feedback. The
most senior attendees tend to speak last, to avoid influencing
others.
     Once everyone has given their high-level responses, the
writer asks for specific comments, line by line, paragraph by
paragraph. This discussion of the details is the critical part of
the meeting. People ask hard questions. They engage in
intense debate and discussion of the key ideas and the way
they are expressed. They point out things that should be
omitted or things that are missing.
     After the meeting, the writer distributes meeting minutes
to all the attendees, including notes on the feedback. Then they
get to work on the revision, incorporating responses to the
feedback. When it is polished, they present it to the executive
leaders in the company. There will be more feedback and
discussion. More revision and more meetings may be required.
     The PR/FAQ review process can be stressful, no matter
how constructive and unbiased the feedback. Gaps will be
found! A PR/FAQ under serious consideration for
implementation will typically require multiple drafts and
meetings with the leadership. Senior managers, directors, and
executive leaders who oversee the authors of PR/FAQs
become skilled evaluators and contributors to the process. The
more PR/FAQs they read, and the more products they build
and launch using the PR/FAQ process, the more capable they
become at identifying the omissions and flaws in the author’s
thinking. And so the process itself creates a tier of master
evaluators as it vets and strengthens the idea and aligns
everyone involved in the project, from individual contributor
to CEO. It also increases the likelihood that a project will be
approved and funded. You should plan on making many
revisions to the PR/FAQ document, even after the project has
formally started, to reflect changes and new elements.

Example: Blue Corp. Announces the Launch of Melinda, the
Smart Mailbox
Melinda is the physical mailbox designed to securely receive
and keep safe all your e-commerce and grocery deliveries.
               PR Newswire, Atlanta, GA, November 5, 2019
    Today Blue Corp. announced the launch of Melinda, a smart mailbox
    that ensures secure and properly chilled delivery and storage for your
    online purchases and groceries. With Melinda, you no longer need to
    worry about getting your deliveries stolen from your doorstep or
    spoiled groceries. Plus, you’re notified as soon as your packages are
    delivered. Packed with smart technology, Melinda costs just $299.
        Today, 23 percent of online shoppers report having packages stolen
    from their front porch, and 19 percent complain of grocery deliveries
    being spoiled. With no easy solution to these problems, customers give
    up and stop ordering online.
        Melinda, with its smart technology and insulation, makes stolen
    packages and spoiled groceries a thing of the past. Each Melinda
    includes a camera and a speaker. When a delivery courier arrives at
    your home, Melinda tells the courier to scan the package barcode by
    holding it up to the camera. If the code is valid, the front door opens
    and Melinda instructs the courier to place the package inside and close
    the door securely. The built-in scale in the base of each Melinda
    verifies that the weight of the delivery matches the weight of the
item(s) you ordered. The courier receives a voice confirmation, and
your purchase is safe and secure. Melinda sends you a text letting you
know that your item arrived along with a video of the courier making
the delivery.
    When you return home and are ready to retrieve your delivery, just
use the built-in fingerprint reader to unlock the door. Melinda can store
and recognize up to ten saved fingerprints so that all members of your
family can access Melinda.
    Do you use Instacart, Amazon, or Walmart for online grocery
delivery? If so, are you tired of spoiled groceries in the hot sun?
Melinda keeps your chilled and frozen food cold. The walls of Melinda
are two inches thick and made with the same pressure-injected foam
used in the best coolers, keeping your groceries cool for up to twelve
hours.
    Melinda fits easily on your porch or stoop, taking up just a few feet
of space, and you can choose from a variety of colors and finishes to
make Melinda an attractive addition to the appearance of your home.
    “Melinda is a breakthrough in safety and convenience for online
shoppers,” says Lisa Morris, CEO of Blue Corp. “In creating Melinda
we combined a number of the latest technologies at the low price of
just $299.”
   “Melinda is a lifesaver,” said Janet Thomas, a frequent online
shopper and customer of Instacart. “It is so frustrating when one of my
packages is stolen from my front porch, and it can be time-consuming
to work with customer support to get a refund. I use Instacart every
week for grocery delivery, and many times I am not home when my
groceries arrive. I love knowing that they are kept cool and secure in
my Melinda. I selected the natural teak finish for my Melinda—it
looks great on my front porch.”
    To order your Melinda, simply visit keepitcoolmelinda.com, or
visit amazon.com, walmart.com, Walmart stores, and other leading
retailers.

                            Internal FAQs
Q: How large is the estimated consumer demand for Melinda?
A: Based on our research, we estimate that ten million households in
  the United States, Europe, and Asia would want to buy Melinda at a
  $299 price point.
Q: Why is $299 the right price point?
A: There are no directly comparable products in the marketplace today.
   One similar product is Amazon Key, which allows couriers access
   to your home, garage, or car using smart lock technology. Another
   similar product is Ring Doorbell, which ranges in price from $99 to
   $499. We based our price on customer surveys and focus groups
   combined with the price needed to ensure profitability.
Q: How does Melinda recognize barcodes on packages?
A: We will license barcode-scanning technology from Green Corp. at a
   cost of $100K per year. In addition, we need to develop an API that
   will allow us to link a Melinda customer account with any e-
   commerce provider (Amazon, Walmart, eBay, OfferUp, etc.), which
   provides us with the item tracking number from the e-commerce or
   delivery merchant. This way we can recognize the barcode with the
   package tracking number and know either the exact or an estimated
   weight for each item.
Q: What if a customer receives an order from an e-commerce provider
  and they haven’t linked their account yet?
A: We make it easy for customers to link their orders because we will
  offer a browser plug-in for Melinda customers that detects when
  they place an order with an e-commerce provider, which then links
  their account and the order details to their Melinda.
Q: Why will e-commerce providers like Amazon and Walmart be
  willing to share these package delivery details with us? What is in it
  for them?
A: We believe we can convince them that the customer experience
  benefits will enable them to increase their sales. In addition, we will
  work closely with their business and legal groups to ensure that we
  handle their customer data in ways that meet their stringent
  requirements. Alternatively, we will offer a simple UI for customers
  to copy and paste each tracking number from their e-commerce
  provider to the Melinda app.
Q: What happens if a customer gets more than one delivery in a day?
A: Melinda can accept multiple deliveries each day until the unit is
  full.
Q: What if the package is too big for Melinda?
A: Packages exceeding 2′x2′x4′ won’t fit in Melinda. Melinda can still
   record the delivery person and scan the barcode, but the item is
   stored outside Melinda.
Q: How does Melinda prevent a courier from stealing items that are
  already in Melinda from a prior order?
A: There are several ways. The first is that the forward-facing camera
  records any activity or access to Melinda. The second is that there is
  a scale at the base of the unit that detects the weight of the shipment
  and verifies that this matches the item(s) ordered. If a second
  delivery is made in one day, Melinda knows the weight of the first
  delivery and the estimated weight of the second delivery, so if the
  net weight is lower, Melinda knows that the courier has removed
  something and will sound an alarm.
Q: What is the estimated bill of materials (BOM) or cost to
  manufacture each Melinda, and how much profit will we make per
  unit?
A: The estimated BOM is $250 for each Melinda, meaning that our
  gross profit per unit is $49. The most expensive parts in Melinda are
      the shell and insulation ($115), the fingerprint reader ($49), and the
      scale.
    Q: What is the power source for Melinda?
    A: Melinda requires a standard AC outlet.
    Q: What size team is required to build Melinda?
    A: We estimate that we need a team of 77 at an annualized cost of $15
       million. There are several teams required to build Melinda, but
       these can be broken down into hardware and software teams. On the
       hardware side, we need a team for each of the following:
        The physical shell, color choices, and finishes (6)
        Integration of the various smart and mechanical components,
        including the fingerprint reader, the camera, the automatic
        (open/close) door, the speaker, and the camera (12)
      On the software side, we will need a team for each of the new
      services. Below is our current assessment of what teams will be
      required and how many people should be on each team, including
      product managers, engineers, designers, and so on:
        Voice commands to couriers (10)
        Fingerprint capture and storing (8)
        Package tracking and item weight details (11)
        Barcode reader (7)
        API to link e-commerce accounts to Melinda (12)
        Browser plug-in/web interface for account linking (5)
        Melinda app for iOS and Android (6)




This fictitious PR/FAQ is designed to illustrate the kinds of
thinking and problems that the author and readers of a
PR/FAQ should consider.
     The product itself is both realistic and unrealistic. The
customer problem of stolen packages and melting groceries is
very real (although the research/stats here are phony), and the
various components and technologies all exist. The Melinda,
as described, is not realistic in that the costs are almost
certainly underestimated (the product is overly complex), and
the total addressable market for the product is probably very
small.
    However, the example enables us to illustrate the ways in
which the PR/FAQ process helps authors assess the viability of
any new product by forcing them to consider and document all
elements and constraints, including (but not limited to) the
consumer needs and total addressable market, the per-unit
economics and P&L, key dependencies, and the feasibility
(how challenging it is to build the product). A good PR/FAQ is
one in which the author has clearly considered and grappled
with each of these issues, seeking truth and clarity on each.
                 Press Release Components
These are the key elements of the press release:
Heading: Name the product in a way the reader (i.e., your
   target customers) will understand. One sentence under the
   title.
    “Blue Corp. announces the launch of Melinda, the smart
    mailbox.”
Subheading: Describe the customer for the product and what
   benefits they will gain from using it. One sentence only
   underneath the heading.
    “Melinda is the physical mailbox designed to securely
    receive and keep safe all your e-commerce and grocery
    deliveries.”
Summary Paragraph: Begin with the city, media outlet, and
   your proposed launch date. Give a summary of the
   product and the benefit.
    “PR Newswire, Atlanta, GA, November 5, 2019. Today
    Blue Corp. announced the launch of Melinda, a smart
    mailbox that ensures secure and properly chilled delivery
    and storage for your online purchases and groceries.”
Problem Paragraph: This is where you describe the problem
    that your product is designed to solve. Make sure that you
    write this paragraph from the customer’s point of view.
    “Today, 23 percent of online shoppers report having
    packages stolen from their front porch, and 19 percent
    complain of grocery deliveries being spoiled.”
Solution Paragraph(s): Describe your product in some detail
    and how it simply and easily solves the customer’s
    problem. For more complex products, you may need more
    than one paragraph.
    “With Melinda, you no longer need to worry about getting
    your online purchases and deliveries stolen…”
Quotes and Getting Started: Add one quote from you or your
   company’s spokesperson and a second quote from a
   hypothetical customer in which they describe the benefit
   they are getting from using your new product. Describe
   how easy it is to get started, and provide a link to your
   website where customers can get more information and
   purchase the product.
    “Melinda is a breakthrough in safety and convenience for
    online shoppers…”
                     FAQ Components
Unlike the PR, the FAQ section has a more free-form feel to it
—there are no mandatory FAQs. The PR section does not
typically include visuals, but it is more than appropriate to
include tables, graphs, and charts in the FAQ. You must
include things like your pro forma P&L for a new business or
product. If you have high-quality mock-ups or wireframes,
they can be included as an appendix.
     Often FAQs are divided into external (customer focused)
and internal (focused on your company). The external FAQs
are those that customers and/or the press will ask you about
the product. These will include more detailed questions about
how the product works, how much it costs, and how/where to
buy it. Because these questions are product specific, they are
unique to an individual PR/FAQ. For internal FAQs, there is a
more standardized list of topics you will need to cover. Here
are some of the typical areas to address.

Consumer Needs and Total Addressable Market (TAM)
     How many consumers have this need or problem?
     How big is the need?
     For how many consumers is this problem big enough
     that they are willing to spend money to do something
     about it?
     If so, how much money would they be willing to spend?
     How many of these consumers have the
     characteristics/capabilities/constraints necessary to make
     use of the product?
    These consumer questions will enable you to identify the
core customers by filtering out those who don’t meet the
product constraints. In the case of Melinda, for example, you
would eliminate people who:
     don’t have enough space on their front porch for this
     product
     don’t have a front porch or similar outdoor area with
     access to the street at all (e.g., most apartment dwellers)
     don’t have a suitable source of electricity
     wouldn’t be pleased to have a large storage/mailbox on
     their front porch
     don’t receive many deliveries or deliveries that need
     refrigeration
     don’t live in areas where package theft is a problem
     don’t have interest or ability to pay $299 to answer the
     need
    Only a discrete number of people will pass through all
these filters and be identified as belonging to the total
addressable market.
     Research into these questions (e.g., how many detached
homes are there in a given area?) can help you estimate the
total addressable market (TAM), but like any research, there
will be a wide error bar. The author and readers of the PR/FAQ
will ultimately have to decide on the size of the TAM based on
the data gathered and their judgment about its relevance. With
Melinda, this process would likely lead to the conclusion that
the TAM is in fact pretty small.

Economics and P&L
     What are the per-unit economics of the device? That is,
     what is the expected gross profit and contribution profit
     per unit?
     What is the rationale for the price point you have chosen
     for the product?
     How much will we have to invest up front to build this
     product in terms of people, technology, inventory,
     warehouse space, and so on?
     For this section of the PR/FAQ, ideally one or more
members of your finance team will work with you to
understand and capture these costs so you can include a
simplified table of the per-unit economics and a mini P&L in
the document. A resourceful entrepreneur or product manager
can do this work themselves if they do not have a finance
manager or team.
    For new products, the up-front investment is a major
consideration. In the case of Melinda, there is a requirement
for 77 people to work on the hardware and software, for an
annualized cost of roughly $15 million. This means that the
product idea needs to have the potential to earn well in excess
of $15 million per year in gross profit to be worth building.
     The consumer questions and economic analysis both have
an effect on the product price point, and that price point, in
turn, has an effect on the size of the total addressable market.
      Price is a key variable in the authoring of your PR/FAQ.
There may be special assumptions or considerations that have
informed your calculation of the price point—perhaps making
it relatively low or unexpectedly high—that need to be called
out and explained. Some of the best new product proposals set
a not-to-exceed price point because it forces the team to
innovate within that constraint and face the tough trade-offs
early on. The problem(s) associated with achieving that price
point should be fully explained and explored in the FAQ.
Suppose your research into Melinda leads you to conclude that
to realize the largest possible TAM, you need to offer the
product at no more than $99. The bill of materials (BOM),
however, comes to $250. Now you have two choices to
suggest. First, alter the specs, strip out features, or take other
actions that will reduce the BOM to below $99. Second,
construct a financial plan that shows heavy losses in the early
days of release, but also shows that the losses can eventually
be mitigated with BOM reductions as the product achieves
scale or can be enhanced with some additional source of
revenue (e.g., an associated service or subscription).

Dependencies
      How will we convince couriers (USPS, UPS, FedEx,
      Amazon Fulfillment, Instacart, etc.) to actually use this
      device instead of their current/standard delivery
      methods?
      How will we ensure that couriers (who don’t work for
      you and over whom you have no control) will use the
      Melinda UI properly and bother to actually put packages
      in it instead of just leaving the package by the front door
      like they typically do?
      Won’t it take more time (which is precious) for them to
      make a delivery than it does today?
      What third-party technologies are we dependent on for
      Melinda to function as promised?
     A common mistake among less-seasoned product
managers is to not fully consider how third parties who have
their own agendas and incentives will interact with their
product idea, or what potential regulatory or legal issues might
arise.
     The role of third parties is a major issue with Melinda,
whose success largely depends on their involvement and
proper execution. Without the correct package tracking data or
the cooperation of the companies that own that data and the
couriers who deliver the packages, Melinda (as described)
would be useless. The only alternative would be for customers
to manually enter their tracking information for every single
delivery into the Melinda app, which they are unlikely to do—
and even if they did, it would still require couriers to be
willing and able to use it. A good PR/FAQ honestly and
accurately assesses these dependencies and describes the
specific concepts or plans for the product to solve them.

Feasibility
      What are the challenging product engineering problems
      we will need to solve?
      What are the challenging customer UI problems we will
      need to solve?
      What are the third-party dependencies we will need to
      solve?
      How will we manage the risk of the up-front investment
      required?
     These questions are intended to help the author clarify to
the reader what level of invention is required and what kind of
challenges are involved in building this new product. These
criteria vary from product to product, and there are different
types of challenges ranging from technical to legal to financial
to third-party partnerships and customer UI or acceptance.
     With Melinda, the engineering challenges are probably
quite manageable, since no new technologies need to be
developed or employed. The user interface is also familiar.
The third-party dependencies present the greatest challenge to
making Melinda work.
                           Go Ahead?
It is important to note that, during our time with Amazon, most
PR/FAQs never made it to a stage where they were launched
as actual products. What this means is that a product manager
will put in a lot of time exploring product ideas that never get
to market. This may be because of the intense competition for
resources and capital among the hundreds of PR/FAQs that are
authored and presented each year within the company. Only
the very best will rise to the top of the stack and get prioritized
and resourced, whether the pool of capital comes from within
a large company like Amazon or from a startup investor. The
fact that most PR/FAQs don’t get approved is a feature, not a
bug. Spending time up front to think through all the details of
a product, and to determine—without committing precious
software development resources—which products not to build,
preserves your company’s resources to build products that will
yield the highest impact for customers and your business.
      Another one of the biggest benefits of a written PR/FAQ
is that it enables the team to truly understand the specific
constraints and problems that would prevent a new product
idea from being viable and aligning on them. At that point, the
product or leadership team must decide if they will keep
working on the product, addressing the problems and
constraints surfaced by the PR/FAQ and developing solutions
that will potentially make the product viable, or if they will set
it aside.
     In the case of Melinda, the author and team would
certainly come to the conclusion that this isn’t a viable product
for many reasons. The TAM may be just too small, no matter
what the product price point. The product might be too
bothersome to use, even if the functionality itself is familiar to
most customers. It may be unrealistic that Amazon and
Walmart would provide a data feed or that couriers would
bother to use the product. The device may simply be too
expensive to build and profitably sell for $299, no matter how
big the TAM might grow to be.
     This process enables a product team and the company
leadership to gain a thorough understanding of the opportunity
and the constraints. Leadership and management are often
about deciding what not to do rather than what to do. Bringing
clarity to why you aren’t doing something is often as
important as having clarity about what you are doing.
     If, after the PR/FAQ process, the leadership team still
believes in the product and wants it to become a reality, the
process will have given them a thorough understanding of the
problems that would need to be solved in order to move
forward with it. Perhaps a problem can be solved through an
acquisition or a partnership. Perhaps it can be solved with the
passage of time—new technologies may become available, or
the costs of the technology might come down. Perhaps the
company decides that the problem or constraint is solvable,
that the solution will require risk and cost, and that they are
willing to assume that risk and cost because the TAM is large
and therefore the potential rewards are great.
     This last consideration came up frequently in reviews with
Jeff, as we would wrestle with product ideas using the
PR/FAQ process. A team might identify a hard problem during
a review that we did not know how to solve, and didn’t know
if we could solve. Jeff would say something to the effect of,
“We shouldn’t be afraid of taking on hard problems if solving
them would unlock substantial value.”
     Above all, keep in mind that the PR/FAQ is a living
document. Once it is approved by the leadership team, it will
almost certainly still be edited and changed (a process that
should be directed by or reviewed with the leadership team).
There is no guarantee that an idea expressed in an excellent
PR/FAQ will move forward and become a product. As we’ve
said, only a small percentage will get the green light. But this
is not a drawback. It is, in fact, a huge benefit of the process—
a considered, thorough, data-driven method for deciding when
and how to invest development resources. Generating and
evaluating great ideas is the real benefit of the Working
Backwards process.
6
Metrics
Manage Your Inputs, Not Your Outputs
    Why metrics become more important as a company grows. The metrics life
    cycle. The difference between input metrics and output metrics. Making sure
    your metrics are unbiased. Using metrics at business reviews. The key pitfalls
    of the review meeting.




Jeff and I (Colin) once visited a Fortune 500 company to meet
privately with the CEO in his office. During our meeting, an
assistant dashed in and handed the boss a sheet of paper. The
CEO glanced at it, waved it at us, and proudly said, “Our stock
is up 30 cents this morning!” His mood brightened, as if he
had personally caused the rise.
     As we drove to our next meeting, Jeff said, “There’s
nothing that CEO did to cause that 30-cent blip in the stock
price.” I agreed, and added that I wouldn’t be surprised if the
assistant had thrown multiple printouts in the recycle bin that
morning when the blip wasn’t so big. Would the same scene
have played out if the share price had dropped 30 cents? The
deeper lesson, one that we’ll explore in this chapter, is this:
share price is what Amazon calls an “output metric.” The
CEO, and companies in general, have very little ability to
directly control output metrics. What’s really important is to
focus on the “controllable input metrics,” the activities you
directly control, which ultimately affect output metrics such as
share price.
    All too often, companies pay attention to the wrong
signals, or lack the ability to see into key business trends, even
while they feel positively awash in data. In this chapter, we’ll
show you how to select and measure metrics that will enable
you to focus on which activities will drive your business in a
meaningful and positive direction. We’ll look at how Amazon
chooses its metrics by focusing on controllable input metrics,
which are the drivers that, when managed well, can lead to
profitable growth. We’ll talk about how we present and
interpret data, and how rigorous metrics ownership drives
accountability. We’ll also share some hard lessons we learned
when optimizing the wrong metrics, and why we struggled at
times to put even the best of our data to good use. We’ll show
what can happen if your company focuses its attention on the
wrong kind of data trends, and we’ll describe some common
pitfalls.
    Unlike the topics covered in previous chapters, there is no
single playbook or written set of rules for how Amazon uses
metrics to run its businesses. The material we’ll discuss is
based on our own Amazon experiences as well as discussions
we’ve had with other current and past senior Amazon leaders.
                Staying Close to the Business
We’ve alluded to Amazon’s growing pains. Not long into the
company’s trajectory, there reached a point when Jeff could no
longer see each part of the process with his own eyes.
Firsthand experience and direct observation were replaced by
the proxies of management layers and canned reports. Some
business-critical information, such as number of new
customers and sales by category, was simply there for the
taking and easy to collect. But there were other kinds of
information that we could only produce with a series of
bespoke ad hoc reports. It was difficult to reliably and quickly
answer the question, “How is the business trending?”
     This early history is fascinating, and the development of
every metric has its own story, but let’s skip ahead to 2000
when Amazon recognized $2.76 billion in annual revenue and
its famously data-driven culture was prevalent throughout the
company. During the fourth quarter—in which our net sales
ended up increasing by 44 percent over Q4 of the previous
year—there was a daily “war room” meeting where the senior
Amazon leaders would analyze a three-page metrics deck and
figure out what actions we’d have to take to successfully
respond to the demands of what was shaping up to be a record-
breaking holiday season. A key component of the deck was the
backlog, which was a tally of the orders we had taken minus
the shipments we had made. The backlog indicated the amount
of work we’d need to do to make sure our customers received
their gifts before the holidays. It would take a massive,
concentrated effort. Many corporate employees were
conscripted for work in the fulfillment centers and customer
service. Colin worked the night shift from 7 p.m. to 5:30 a.m.
in the Campbellsville, Kentucky, fulfillment center and
telecommuted from the Best Western hotel to stay on top of
his day job. Bill stayed in Seattle to keep the Video store
running smoothly during the day and traveled south 2.5 miles
each night to work in the Seattle fulfillment center.
    It was touch and go for a while. If we overpromised, we’d
ruin a customer’s holiday. If we underpromised and stopped
accepting orders, we were basically telling our customers to go
elsewhere for their holiday needs.
     It was close, but we made it. Shortly after that holiday
season we held a postmortem, out of which was born the
Weekly Business Review (WBR). The purpose of the WBR
was to provide a more comprehensive lens through which to
see the business.
     The WBR has proved very useful over the years and is
widely adopted throughout the company. We’ll show how the
WBR is constructed and implemented so the company can
improve each and every week. It has a fractal nature that
allows us to easily adapt to different situations, from small
groups to billion-dollar businesses. Small teams, business
category lines, and the entire online retail business all have
their own WBRs. In addition to our discussion of the benefits
of the WBR, we’ll point out some common mistakes in their
design and execution, including a few big ones we made
ourselves. Though we focus on the WBR in this chapter, the
same principles and techniques can be applied wherever you
need to look at data to help make informed decisions.
                   The Metrics Life Cycle
When the retail, operations, and finance teams began to
construct the initial Amazon WBR, they turned to a well-
known Six Sigma process improvement method called
DMAIC, an acronym for Define-Measure-Analyze-Improve-
Control.1 Should you decide to implement a Weekly Business
Review for your business, we recommend following the
DMAIC steps as well. The order of the steps matters.
Progressing through this metrics life cycle in this order can
prevent a lot of frustration and rework, allowing you to
achieve your goals faster.

Define
First, you need to select and define the metrics you want to
measure. The right choice of metrics will deliver clear,
actionable guidance. A poor choice will result in a statement
of the obvious, a nonspecific presentation of everything your
company is doing. Donald Wheeler, in his book
Understanding Variation, explains:
    Before you can improve any system … you must
    understand how the inputs affect the outputs of the
    system. You must be able to change the inputs (and
    possibly the system) in order to achieve the desired
    results. This will require a sustained effort, constancy of
    purpose, and an environment where continual
    improvement is the operating philosophy.2
     Amazon takes this philosophy to heart, focusing most of
its effort on leading indicators (we call these “controllable
input metrics”) rather than lagging indicators (“output
metrics”). Input metrics track things like selection, price, or
convenience—factors that Amazon can control through
actions such as adding items to the catalog, lowering cost so
prices can be lowered, or positioning inventory to facilitate
faster delivery to customers. Output metrics—things like
orders, revenue, and profit—are important, but they generally
can’t be directly manipulated in a sustainable manner over the
long term. Input metrics measure things that, done right, bring
about the desired results in your output metrics.
     We can’t tell you how many times we’ve heard people
say, when talking about a recently launched Amazon initiative,
“You can do that at Amazon because you don’t care about
profits.” That simply isn’t true. Profits are just as important to
Amazon as to any other major company. Other output metrics
like weekly revenue, total customers, Prime subscribers, and
(over the long term) stock price—or more accurately, free cash
flow per share—matter very much to Amazon. Early
detractors mistook Amazon’s emphasis on input metrics for a
lack of interest in profits and pronounced the company
doomed, only to be stunned by its growth over the ensuing
years.
  1. The Flywheel: Input Metrics Lead to Output Metrics
                     and Back Again
In 2001 Jeff drew the simple diagram below on a napkin to
illustrate Amazon’s virtuous cycle, also called the “Amazon
flywheel.” This sketch, inspired by the flywheel concept in
Jim Collins’s book Good to Great, is a model of how a set of
controllable input metrics drives a single key output metric—
in this case, growth. In this closed-loop system, as you inject
energy into any one element, or all of them, the flywheel spins
faster:




     Since it’s a cycle, you can start at any input. The metrics
for Customer Experience, for example, could include speed of
shipping, breadth of selection, richness of product information,
ease of use, and so forth. Watch what happens when we
improve customer experience:

      Better customer experience leads to more traffic.
      More traffic attracts more sellers seeking those buyers.
      More sellers lead to wider selection.
      Wider selection enhances customer experience,
      completing the circle.
      The cycle drives growth, which in turn lowers cost
      structure.
      Lower costs lead to lower prices, improving customer
      experience, and the flywheel spins faster.

   The Amazon flywheel captures the major aspect of what
makes Amazon’s retail business successful. Therefore, it
should be no surprise that almost all the metrics discussed in
the WBR can be categorized into one of the flywheel
elements. In fact, the first page of the WBR deck has a picture
of the very same flywheel above.
    2. Identify the Correct, Controllable Input Metrics
This step sounds easy but can be deceptively tricky, and the
details matter. One mistake we made at Amazon as we started
expanding from books into other categories was choosing
input metrics focused around selection, that is, how many
items Amazon offered for sale. Each item is described on a
“detail page” that includes a description of the item, images,
customer reviews, availability (e.g., ships in 24 hours), price,
and the “buy” box or button. One of the metrics we initially
chose for selection was the number of new detail pages
created, on the assumption that more pages meant better
selection.
     Once we identified this metric, it had an immediate effect
on the actions of the retail teams. They became excessively
focused on adding new detail pages—each team added tens,
hundreds, even thousands of items to their categories that had
not previously been available on Amazon. For some items, the
teams had to establish relationships with new manufacturers
and would often buy inventory that had to be housed in the
fulfillment centers.
     We soon saw that an increase in the number of detail
pages, while seeming to improve selection, did not produce a
rise in sales, the output metric. Analysis showed that the
teams, while chasing an increase in the number of items, had
sometimes purchased products that were not in high demand.
This activity did cause a bump in a different output metric—
the cost of holding inventory—and the low-demand items took
up valuable space in fulfillment centers that should have been
reserved for items that were in high demand.
    When we realized that the teams had chosen the wrong
input metric—which was revealed via the WBR process—we
changed the metric to reflect consumer demand instead. Over
multiple WBR meetings, we asked ourselves, “If we work to
change this selection metric, as currently defined, will it result
in the desired output?” As we gathered more data and
observed the business, this particular selection metric evolved
over time from

     number of detail pages, which we refined to
     number of detail page views (you don’t get credit for a
     new detail page if customers don’t view it), which then
     became
     the percentage of detail page views where the products
     were in stock (you don’t get credit if you add items but
     can’t keep them in stock), which was ultimately
     finalized as
     the percentage of detail page views where the products
     were in stock and immediately ready for two-day
     shipping, which ended up being called Fast Track In
     Stock.

    You’ll notice a pattern of trial and error with metrics in
the points above, and this is an essential part of the process.
The key is to persistently test and debate as you go. For
example, Jeff was concerned that the Fast Track In Stock
metric was too narrow. Jeff Wilke argued that the metric
would yield broad systematic improvements across the retail
business. They agreed to stick with it for a while, and it
worked out just as Jeff Wilke had anticipated.
     Fast Track In Stock, combined with inventory holding
cost, provided the teams with an actionable and correct set of
input metrics to add selection in a way that would profitably
drive sales. Once you have metrics solidified, you can then set
a standard and measure teams against that standard. For
instance, we decided that in each category, we wanted 95
percent of detail page views to display a product that was in
stock and ready for immediate shipping.
     These new input metrics created a substantial change in
the work and behavior of the category teams. Their focus
shifted to reviewing other websites and retail stores and
combing through Amazon search logs to determine what items
people were searching for in each category but weren’t finding
on Amazon. From this they could develop a “stack-ranked” or
prioritized list of manufacturers to approach and items to
acquire that mattered most to consumers. Rather than focusing
on the sheer number of items added, they could instead add the
items that would make the biggest impact on sales. Sounds
simple, but with the wrong input metrics or an input metric
that is too crude, your efforts may not be rewarded with an
improvement in your output metrics. The right input metrics
get the entire organization focused on the things that matter
most. Finding exactly the right one is an iterative process that
needs to happen with every input metric.
     Note: Most of the examples we give in this chapter are of
large companies with substantial resources. But DMAIC and
the WBR process is eminently scalable. Your level of
investment should be on par with the resources you have.
    If you are a nonprofit, figure out a modest number of key
metrics that reliably show how well you are doing. For
example, how often do you contact your donor base, and how
does that frequency affect your funding?
    A big mistake people make is not getting started. Most
WBRs have humble beginnings and undergo substantial
changes and improvement over time.

Measure
Building tools to collect the metrics data you need may sound
rather simple, but—like choosing the metrics themselves—
we’ve found that it takes time and concerted effort to get the
collection tools right. In chapter two, we discussed how
important it is to understand and remove bias in the interview
process. Removing bias is just as important in metrics. Each of
Jeff’s direct reports who ran a business unit had an inherent
bias to choose metrics and collect data that would show that
their units were trending positive. It’s just human nature to
want to succeed.
   In the early 2000s, Jeff and CFO Warren Jenson—who
was succeeded in 2002 by Tom Szkutak—stated explicitly
how critical it was for the finance team to uncover and report
the unbiased truth. Jeff, Warren, and Tom all insisted that,
regardless of whether the business was going well or poorly,
the finance team should “have no skin in the game other than
to call it like they see it,” based on what the data revealed.
This truth-seeking mentality permeated the entire finance team
and was critical because it ensured that company leaders
would have unvarnished, unbiased information available to
them as they made important decisions. Having an
independent person or team involved with measurement can
help you seek out and eliminate biases in your data.
     The next step after determining which tools to use is to
collect the data and present it in a usable format. Often the
data you want will be scattered across different systems and
may take some serious software resources to compile,
aggregate, and display correctly. Do not compromise here.
Make the investment. If you don’t, you may find that you are
flying blind with respect to some important aspect of the
business.
    As you develop the collection tools, make sure they are
measuring what you think they are measuring. Diving deep to
understand exactly how the data is collected helps spot
potential problems. Consider the metric “in stock,” which
attempts to answer the question, “What percentage of my
products are immediately available to purchase and ship?”
There are many ways to define and collect data about in-stock
items—for example:

     We take a snapshot of our catalog each night at 11 p.m.,
     determine which items are in stock, and weight each
     item by trailing 30-day product sales. That is, if product
     A has sold 30 units in the past month and product B has
     sold 10 units in the past month, and they are both out of
     stock at the time the in-stock measurement is recorded,
     product A will impact the in-stock metric three times
     more than product B will.
     We add software to the product pages that performs the
     following actions. Every time a product page is
      displayed, we add one to the metric “Total Number of
      Product Pages Displayed.” If that product is in stock
      when it is displayed, we add one to the metric “Total
      Number of In-Stock Product Pages Displayed.” At the
      end of the day, we divide the “Total Number of In-Stock
      Product Pages Displayed” by the “Total Number of
      Product Pages Displayed,” to get our overall in-stock
      metric for the day. For example, suppose you displayed
      one million detail pages total across every product in
      your catalog, and 850,000 of those product pages
      displayed a product that was in stock. Then your
      demand-weighted in-stock percentage for that day would
      be 85 percent. Products that customers view more have a
      greater impact on this metric than products that are
      viewed rarely.

     Each of these metrics measures in-stock in a different way
and can yield quite a different result for the same business on
the same day. The first metric may skew the data depending on
the time of day the company receives the bulk of its inventory.
If most of the inventory comes in at night, the item could have
been out of stock for most of the day but replenished just
before the in-stock data is collected. The result will be that the
in-stock performance will look better to the company than
what the bulk of the customers actually experienced that day.
And if a popular item is out of stock for a long period of time,
it will have less of an impact on the metric each day since the
metric is weighted by trailing 30-day sales of that item.
     The second metric, while more expensive to collect (at
least in the short run), is a more accurate representation of
what customers experienced that day. It captures, from a
customer point of view, what percent of the time they
experienced that Amazon was in-stock on the item(s) they
viewed. The first metric is inward-facing and operations-
centric, while the second metric is outward-facing and
customer-centric. Start with the customer and work backwards
by aligning your metrics with the customer experience.
     One often-overlooked piece of the puzzle is determining
how to audit metrics. Unless you have a regular process to
independently validate the metric, assume that over time
something will cause it to drift and skew the numbers. If the
metric is important, find out a way to do a separate
measurement or gather customer anecdotes and see if the
information trues up with the metric you’re looking at. So, a
recent example would be testing for COVID-19 by region. It is
not enough to look at the number of positive tests in your
region as compared to another region with a population of a
similar size. You must also look at the number of tests per
capita performed in each region. Since both the number of
positive tests and the number of tests per capita in each
location will keep changing, you will need to keep updating
your audit of the measurements.*

Analyze
This stage has been given many different labels by different
teams—reducing variance, making the process predictable,
getting the process under control, to name a few. But the
Analyze stage is all about developing a comprehensive
understanding of what drives your metrics. Until you know all
the external factors that impact the process, it will be difficult
to implement positive changes.
      The objective in this stage is separating signals from noise
in data and then identifying and addressing root causes. Why
is it we can pick 100 items per hour in a fulfillment center on
one shift and 30 items per hour on another? Why are we able
to display pages in under 100 milliseconds most of the time
yet some pages take 10 seconds to display? Why are customer
service contacts per order always higher on Mondays than on
other days of the week?
    When Amazon teams come across a surprise or a
perplexing problem with the data, they are relentless until they
discover the root cause. Perhaps the most widely used
technique at Amazon for these situations is the Correction of
Errors (COE) process, based upon the “Five Whys” method
developed at Toyota and used by many companies worldwide.
When you see an anomaly, ask why it happened and iterate
with another “Why?” until you get to the underlying factor
that was the real culprit. This COE process requires the team
who had a significant error or problem to write a document
describing the problem or error, and to drill down on what
caused it by asking and answering “Why?” five times in order
to get to the true root cause.
     Charlie Bell, an SVP in AWS and a great operational guru
at Amazon, put it aptly when he said, “When you encounter a
problem, the probability you’re actually looking at the actual
root cause of the problem in the initial 24 hours is pretty close
to zero, because it turns out that behind every issue there’s a
very interesting story.”
    In the end, if you stick with identifying the true root
causes of variation and eliminating them, you’ll have a
predictable, in-control process that you can optimize.

Improve
Once you have developed a solid understanding of how your
process works along with a robust set of metrics, you can
devote energy to improving the process. For instance, if you
reach the point where you can reliably achieve a weekly 95
percent in-stock rate, you can then ask, “What changes do we
need to make to get to 98 percent?”
     If you have progressed through the prior three steps
(Define, Measure, and Analyze), then your actions to improve
the metric will have a higher chance of succeeding because
you’ll be responding to signals instead of noise. If you
immediately jump to the Improve stage, you’ll be working
with imperfect information on a process you likely don’t fully
understand yet, and the actions you take will be much less
likely to generate desired results. In the forthcoming example,
we’ll show how a large Amazon department neglected to
complete the first three steps, which caused lots of thrash and
yielded no meaningful results.
     After you have been operating a WBR for a while, you
may notice that a metric is no longer yielding useful
information. In that case, it’s okay to prune it from the deck.

Control
This final stage is all about ensuring that your processes are
operating normally and performance is not degrading over
time. As your fundamental understanding of what drives the
business improves, it’s common for the WBR to become an
exception-based meeting rather than a regular one for
discussing each and every metric.
      Another thing that can happen in this stage is that you’ll
identify processes that can be automated. Once a process is
well understood and the decision-making logic can be encoded
in software or hardware, it’s a potential candidate for
automation. Forecasting and purchasing are two examples of
processes that were eventually automated at Amazon. It took
years of collaborative effort among category buyers and
software engineers—and involving plenty of trial and error—
to automate the forecasting and purchasing decisions across
the hundreds of millions of products in Amazon’s catalog. But
it’s now done with greater accuracy than even a large team of
buyers could do manually.
                The WBR: Metrics at Work
At Amazon, the Weekly Business Review (WBR) is the place
where metrics are put into action. We’ll talk first about how
data presentation (mostly graphic) is designed to draw
attention where it’s most needed. Second, we’ll describe the
meeting itself, how it’s structured to maximize results, and
some cautionary notes about how it can fail.

The Deck
Each meeting begins with the virtual or printed distribution of
the data package, which contains the weekly snapshot of
graphs, tables, and occasional explanatory notes for all your
metrics. In this book, we use the term “the deck” to refer to
this overall data package. Data visualization software has
advanced greatly since the advent of the WBR deck. There are
many excellent choices ranging in price from free to modest
for smaller organizations, while more advanced tools are
available for large enterprises. In practice, many of today’s
organizations do not assemble a single WBR deck. Instead,
separate departments rely on a virtual deck where they can
access these data visualization tools to generate the
information for their own area. We’ll show you a few example
graphs in the pages that follow, but first let’s review some of
the Amazon deck’s distinctive features:
    The deck represents a data-driven, end-to-end view of
    the business. While departments shown on org charts are
    simple and separate, business activities usually are not.
    The deck presents a consistent, end-to-end review of the
    business each week that is designed to follow the
    customer experience with Amazon. This flow from topic
    to topic can reveal the interconnectedness of seemingly
    independent activities.
    It’s mostly charts, graphs, and data tables. With so many
    metrics to review, written narrative or explanatory notes
    would undercut the efficiency of the read-through. One
notable exception we’ll discuss below is how to deal with
anecdotes.
How many metrics should you review? There is no magic
number or formula. Coming up with the right metrics
takes time, and you should seek to improve them
continuously. Over time you and your team should
modify, add, and remove metrics based on the strength
and quality of the signal each emits.
Emerging patterns are a key point of focus. Individual
data points can tell useful stories, especially when
compared to other time periods. In the WBR, Amazon
analyzes trend lines to highlight challenges as they
emerge rather than waiting for them to be summed up in
quarterly or yearly results.
Graphs plot results against comparable prior periods.
Metrics are intended to trend better over time. Care is
taken to ensure that prior periods are structured to provide
apples-to-apples comparisons so as not to highlight false
variances due to predictable things like holidays or
weekends.
Graphs show two or more timelines, for example,
trailing 6-week and trailing 12-month. Trend lines for the
short term can magnify small but important issues that are
hard to spot when averaged out over longer periods.
Anecdotes and exception reporting are woven into the
deck. One trait of an Amazon WBR deck that people
often remark upon is the liberal use of two tools:
anecdotes and exception reporting—that is, the
description of an element that falls outside some standard
or usual situation. Both tools enable you to dive into
examples that contain something that doesn’t follow the
natural or accustomed patterns and that can sometimes,
but not always, reveal a defect, a broken process, or a
problem with system logic. The use of anecdotes and
exception reporting has enabled leaders to audit at scale in
a very detailed way. This ability to flag, evaluate,
    examine, dig deep, and seek specific solutions for a wide
    range of issues in a very large organization is something
    we’ve noticed is uniquely Amazonian, and it’s helpful for
    small and large businesses alike. We’ll provide some
    examples.

The Meeting
What happens inside the WBR is critical execution not
normally visible outside the company. A well-run WBR
meeting is defined by intense customer focus, deep dives into
complex challenges, and insistence on high standards and
operational excellence. One may wonder, at what level is it
appropriate for executives to shift focus to output metrics?
After all, companies and their senior executives are routinely
judged by output metrics like revenue and profit. Jeff knows
this well, in part based on his time spent working at a Wall
Street investment firm. The simple answer is that the focus
does not shift at any level of management. Yes, executives
know their output metrics backward and forward. But if they
don’t continue to focus on inputs, they lose control over and
visibility into the tools that generate output results. Therefore,
at Amazon, everyone from the individual contributor to the
CEO must have detailed knowledge of input metrics to know
whether the organization is maximizing outputs.
     The deck is usually owned by someone in finance. Or
more accurately, the data in the deck are certified as accurate
by finance. However, because multiple people in the room are
responsible for each section of the deck, no one “runs” the
meeting per se. For most companies, excluding large
companies with tens of billions in revenue and multiple big
divisions, the audience for the WBR is the CEO and CFO. The
meeting attendees should include the executive team and their
direct reports as well as anyone who owns or is speaking to
any specific section in the deck. Because technology now
enables virtual meetings, it is possible to include many more
people in the meeting. Adding more junior members of the
company to the WBR can increase their engagement in the
business and further their growth and development—by
allowing them to observe the discussions and thinking of more
seasoned leaders.
     It is worth noting here that, at Amazon, even the most
senior executives review the full WBR deck of metrics,
including all the inputs and outputs. Metrics—as well as
anecdotes about the customer experience—are the area where
the leadership principle Dive Deep is most clearly
demonstrated by senior leaders. They carefully examine the
trends and changes in the metrics; audit incidents, failures, and
customer anecdotes; and consider whether the input metrics
should be updated in some way to improve the outputs.
     The WBR is an important embodiment of how metrics are
put into action at Amazon, but it isn’t the only one. Metrics
dashboards and reports are established by every engineering,
operations, and business unit at the company. In many cases
metrics are monitored in real time, and each critical technical
and operational service receives an “alarm” to ensure that
failures and outages are identified instantly. In other cases,
teams rely on dashboards that are updated hourly or daily for
their metrics. The WBR meeting and process is distinctive in
how it has enabled Amazon to drive the flywheel faster every
year, which in turn has yielded exceptional results.
We use consistent and familiar formatting to speed
interpretation
A good deck uses a consistent format throughout—the graph
design, time periods covered, color palette, symbol set (for
current year/prior year/goal), and the same number of charts
on every page wherever possible. Some data naturally lend
themselves to different presentations, but the default is to
display in the standard format.
     Amazon thereby looks at the same set of data every week,
in the same order, and gets a holistic view of the business. The
team builds up expertise in spotting trends and picks up the
rhythm of the review; anomalies stand out more distinctly, and
the meeting runs more efficiently.
We focus on variances and don’t waste time on the
expected
People like talking about their area, especially when they’re
delivering as expected, and even more so when they exceed
expectations, but WBR time is precious. If things are operating
normally, say “Nothing to see here” and move along. The goal
of the meeting is to discuss exceptions and what is being done
about them. The status quo needs no elaboration.
Our business owners own metrics and are prepared to
explain variances
Amazon business owners are responsible for tracking the
success of their area as defined by their metrics. In the weekly
review, the owners, not the finance team, are expected to
provide a crisp explanation for variances against expectations.
As a result, business owners quickly become adept at spotting
trends. Every week they review the deck before the WBR and
respond by discussing what action they plan to take to address
the variances.
    This is a hard-earned lesson; we’ve seen a metric owner
display their metrics in front of a group where it’s obviously
the first time that person has seen the data. That’s a big
mistake, a waste of everyone else’s time, and will most
definitely result in a kerfuffle with the senior leader in the
room. By the time the WBR meeting occurs, each metric
owner should have thoroughly analyzed the metrics they own.
    Sometimes even the well prepared are hit with a question
to which the right answer isn’t immediately apparent. In that
case, the owner is expected to say something like, “I don’t
know. We are still analyzing the data and will get back to
you.” This is preferable to guessing, or worse, making
something up on the fly.
We keep operational and strategic discussions separate
The WBR is a tactical operational meeting to analyze
performance trends of the prior week. At Amazon, it was not
the time to discuss new strategies, project updates, or
upcoming product releases.
We try not to browbeat (it’s not the Inquisition)
It’s okay to dig into a meaningful variation that needs more
attention, and to point out when high standards have not been
met. Still, success demands an environment where people
don’t feel intimidated when talking about something that went
wrong in their area. Some Amazon teams were better at
exemplifying this than others were, and, quite honestly, it’s an
area where the company could improve. Sometimes WBRs
can devolve into downright hostile environments, especially at
times when a major slip-up caused the comments to focus
more on the presenter than on the issue. While fear may be a
good short-term motivator, it will ultimately cause more
problems than it solves.
     Mistakes should be a learning experience for all. If people
become afraid of pointing out their own mistakes because they
will feel humiliated in front of their peers, it’s human nature
for them to do whatever they can to hide those mistakes in
future meetings. Variances that get glossed over are lost
learning opportunities for everybody. To prevent this, mistakes
should be acknowledged as a chance to take ownership,
understand the root cause, and learn from the experience.
Some tension is unavoidable and appropriate, but we think it’s
better to establish a culture where it’s not just okay, it’s
actually encouraged to openly discuss mistakes.
We make transitions easy
We’ve attended many executive meetings where the most
expensive team in the company wastes valuable time, for
example, fumbling the handoff of the presentation from one
person to the next because the second person’s dashboard
doesn’t load easily, or what have you. To make these
transitions quick and seamless, you have to put in the up-front
work. The WBR is Amazon’s most expensive and impactful
weekly meeting, and every second counts—plan ahead and run
the meeting efficiently.
                Anatomy of a Metrics Chart
A WBR can easily include charts that number in the hundreds,
and that much data benefits enormously from consistency of
presentation. In our sample charts below, we’ve included
different types of metrics from different functional business
areas to illustrate the flexibility of this approach.

Zooming In: Weekly and Monthly Metrics on a Single Graph
As we noted above, at Amazon we routinely place our trailing
6 weeks and trailing 12 months side by side on the same x-
axis. The effect is like adding a “zoom” function to a static
graph that gives you a snapshot of a shorter time period, with
the added bonus that you’re seeing both the monthly graph and
the “zoomed-in” version of it simultaneously. Here we provide
an example of what that dual view looks like in practice. (The
following charts do not contain actual data; they are for
illustration purposes only.)




    This graphic measures page views for a business, and
conveys a lot of data in a small space:

     The gray line is prior year, the black line is current year
     The left graph, those first 6 data points, shows the
     trailing 6 weeks
     The right graph, with 12 data points, shows the entire
     trailing year month by month
     This built-in “zoom” adds clarity by magnifying the
     most recent data, which the 12-month graph puts into
     context.

    At the bottom of the chart, we call out additional key data
points, most of which compare one period to another.

Why We Watch Year-over-Year (YOY) Trends
This example graph, similar to ones you may see in a typical
monthly business review (the monthly version of the WBR),
compares actual monthly revenue against both planned
revenue and prior year revenue. As you can see below, it looks
like we are beating plan and growing at a decent clip year over
year:




     There’s nothing to see here, so let’s move on—right?
Maybe not. Here’s the same graph with one additional trend
line: YOY growth rates plotted with a dotted line against a
secondary y-axis:
     Without the dotted line, you might not have noticed the
rate at which the current and projected year trends are slowly
converging. Adding YOY growth rates in addition to the
underlying metric you are measuring is a great way to spot
trends. In this example, YOY growth has actually decelerated
67 percent since January with no signs of plateauing. The
business may look healthy at a cursory glance, but trouble is
looming on the horizon. The enhanced graphic reveals the
need for action that the simpler graph obscures.

Output Metrics Show Results. Input Metrics Provide
Guidance.
There’s another familiar lesson in this graph: output metrics—
the data we graphed above—are far poorer indicators of trend
causes than input metrics. It turned out in this case that the
cause of our decelerating growth was a reduction in the rate of
acquiring new customers—but nothing in these graphs gives
any clue to that cause. With a sizable existing business, if you
only pay attention to the output metric “revenue,” you
typically won’t see the effects of new customer deceleration
for quite some time. However, if you look at input metrics
instead—things like “new customers,” “new customer
revenue,” and “existing customer revenue”—you will detect
the signal much earlier, and with a much clearer call to action.
Not Every Chart Compares Against Goals
Some WBR charts don’t include goals, but that’s often
appropriate. If the goal of the metric is to spot trends or
highlight when a process is out of control, or if we don’t have
a target at all (e.g., percentage of Android vs iOS mobile
users), plotting against a goal is not necessary.

Data Combined with Anecdote to Tell the Whole Story
Numerical data become more powerful when combined with
real-life customer stories. The Dive Deep leadership principle
states, “Leaders operate at all levels, stay connected to the
details, audit frequently, and are skeptical when metrics and
anecdotes differ. No task is beneath them.”
    Amazon employs many techniques to ensure that
anecdotes reach the teams that own and operate a service. One
example is a program called the Voice of the Customer. The
customer service department routinely collects and
summarizes customer feedback and presents it during the
WBR, though not necessarily every week. The chosen
feedback does not always reflect the most commonly received
complaint, and the CS department has wide latitude on what to
present. When the stories are read at the WBR, they are often
painful to hear because they highlight just how much we let
customers down. But they always provide a learning
experience and an opportunity for us to improve.
     One Voice of the Customer story was about an incident
when our software barraged a few credit cards with repeated
$1.00 pre-authorizations that normally happen only once per
order. The customers weren’t charged, and such pre-
authorizations expire after a few days, but while they were
pending, they counted against credit limits. Usually, this would
not have much of an effect on the customer. But one customer
wrote to say that just after buying an item on Amazon, she
went to buy medicine for her child, and her card was declined.
She asked that we help resolve the issue so she could purchase
the medicine her child needed. At first, an investigation into
her complaint revealed that an edge-case bug—another way of
saying a rare occurrence—had bumped her card balance over
the limit. Many companies would dismiss such cases as
outliers, and thus not worthy of attention, on the assumption
that they rarely happen and are too expensive to fix. At
Amazon, such cases were regularly attended to because they
would happen again and because the investigation often
revealed adjacent problems that needed to be solved. What at
first looked to be just an edge case turned out to be more
significant. The bug had caused problems in other areas that
we did not initially notice. We quickly fixed the problem for
her and for all other impacted customers.
     These stories remind us that the work we do has direct
impact on customers’ lives. There are comparable programs
that capture similar anecdotes for Amazon’s third-party sellers
and corporate AWS customers.
     Exception reports come in many flavors, but the following
Contribution Profit (CP) example should illustrate the basic
concept and its usefulness. CP is defined as the incremental
money generated after selling an item and deducting the
variable costs associated with that item. It’s essentially the
money the company has left over after the sale of the item,
which goes to pay for the fixed costs of the business and,
ideally after that, contributes a profit. There is a CP Exception
report that lists the top ten CP negative products (ones that did
not generate a profit) within a category for the previous week.
Doing a deep dive into these ten products, which often vary
from week to week, can reveal very useful information about
problems that require action. Here are a few findings that
could result from reviewing a top-ten CP negative report:

      CP was negative due to price markdowns that were
      necessary because we had purchased too many of a
      certain item, which took up valuable fulfillment center
      space and capital. The purchase was initiated by the
      automated purchasing system that had been fed faulty
      input data. Action: investigate the source of the faulty
      input data to correct the system.
     CP was negative due to price markdowns originating
     from a manual purchase order error. The order quantity
     the buyer entered on the purchase order was too large,
     and they did not follow the correct process due to a lack
     of training. Action: use the incident as a teaching
     moment.
     CP was negative due to faulty cost allocation. The
     finance system was not allocating costs correctly for a
     certain class of item. Action: fix the cost allocation
     system.
     CP was negative because the logistics provider charged
     more than double the appropriate fee for shipping a
     particular item. The provider charged the higher fee
     based on incorrect size and weight information listed for
     the item in the catalog. Action: fix the catalog data and
     come up with a plan to put a mechanism in place to
     prevent the same error from happening for other items in
     the catalog.
     CP was negative because the item is sold at a low price
     but is expensive to ship. Whiteboards and yard rakes are
     examples of products that can fall into this category.
     Action: evaluate whether these items should be stocked
     and sold or some other change should be made, such as
     changing suppliers or changing the default shipping
     method.

    Data and anecdotes make a powerful combination when
they’re in sync, and they are a valuable check on one another
when they are not.
     Perhaps the most powerful anecdote in this regard features
Jeff himself. Though it happened outside the WBR, it’s worth
mentioning here. Amazon has a program called Customer
Connection, which is mandatory for corporate employees
above a certain level. While the details have changed over the
years, the premise has remained the same. Every two years the
corporate employee is required to become a customer service
agent for a few days. The employee gets some basic refresher
training from a CS agent, listens in on calls, watches
email/chat interactions, and then handles some customer
contacts directly. Once they learn the tools and policies, they
perform some or all of those tasks under the supervision of a
CS agent. (One of my own calls was from a customer whose
neighbor’s dog had eaten his Amazon package. He offered to
send us the uneaten bits to prove his case.)
     Jeff is not exempted from this program. While I was
working as his shadow, it came time for his Customer
Connection recertification, and we dutifully traveled an hour
each day to the customer service center in Tacoma,
Washington. Jeff was particularly good with customers over
the phone, though he was sometimes overly generous. He gave
one customer a full product refund when the policy was to
refund the shipping cost only.
     On the first day of training, we listened to the CS agent
handle a few calls. On one call, the customer complained that
her lawn furniture had arrived damaged. The CS agent asked
for the product number. As the customer was looking for it, the
CS agent muted the call, and said to us, “I bet she’s referring
to this lawn chair,” and pointed to the product on the Amazon
site. Sure enough, when the customer read out the number
from the packing slip it was the one that the CS had predicted
it would be. Jeff and I raised our eyebrows in surprise but
didn’t want to interrupt the call.
     After the issue had been resolved and the call ended, Jeff
asked, “How did you know the customer was going to say
this?” The CS agent responded that it happened quite often
with this newly listed product. The packaging was inadequate,
and the furniture often got banged or bruised in transit.
    Jeff had recently been learning about how Toyota
approached quality control and continuous improvement. One
technique they used in their automobile assembly line was the
Andon Cord. The car-in-progress moves along the line, and
each employee adds a part or performs a task. When any
worker notices a quality problem, they are authorized to pull a
cord that stops the entire assembly line. A team of specialists
swarms to the cord-puller’s station, troubleshoots the issue,
and develops a fix so the error never happens again.
     Here was a similar situation at Amazon, except without
the Andon Cord. The CS agent knew of a problem but had no
way to improve the process. All the agent could do was offer a
concession, make an apology, and ship a new product. We did
have a process where each category manager looked at their
monthly performance, including products with higher return
rates and customer service inquiries. So this issue would have
eventually been detected and fixed. But it likely would have
taken several weeks and too many additional dissatisfied
customers before that would happen.
     As we considered the problem of the damaged lawn
furniture before the next call arrived, Jeff blurted out, “We
need an Andon Cord for customer service.” There was no
assembly line to halt, but the CS agent would be given the
authority to click on what we called “the big red button” on
their control screen. Once that button was clicked, two things
happened: the “Add to Cart” and “1-Click” buttons would
disappear from the product page so no customers could buy
that product, and the category manager would immediately be
notified that purchasing for one of their products had been
disabled until they could investigate and fix the issue.
    It took some time to put Jeff’s idea into operation. We had
to build the tools that would remove the Buy Now or Add to
Cart button and alert the appropriate internal teams, put
together the necessary reporting infrastructure, and train the
CS team on how and when to press the big red button. There
was some concern that the big red button would be pressed too
often. Selling products on a regular basis, after all, was quite
important for the health of the company.
     That concern proved to be unwarranted—the CS agents
were not overly zealous in pressing that button. It turns out
that the Amazon version of the Andon Cord empowered the
right people, those on the front lines who were talking directly
to customers. It surfaced serious issues as soon as they were
noticed. It proved once again that giving employees the right
tools to solve problems and relying on their good judgment is
a powerful combination. It is used widely across Amazon.
     That story has been told many times and proves the power
of anecdote to illuminate data and make it memorable.



Now, as effective as the WBR process can be, it can also go
astray in several ways, including poor meeting management,
focusing on normal variations rather than signals, and looking
at the right data but in the wrong way.
                 Pitfall 1: Disaster Meetings
One large software group, run by a senior leader who is no
longer at Amazon, had memorably rough WBR meetings.
Learning and taking ownership of problems and their solutions
were two important goals of the WBR process, and on that
front these meetings were a huge missed opportunity. They
wasted a lot of everyone’s time.
     One issue was that the attendee list got more and more
bloated, and we had to keep finding bigger conference rooms
to fit everyone. Likewise, the number of metrics we were
trying to track kept ballooning—sometimes for the better, but
more often for the worse.
     The meetings were also just really unpleasant. There was
a lack of ground rules and decorum, with quite a bit of
interruption and sniping. Any anomaly was blood in the water,
with accusatory questions fired at the presenter. The
conversation would quickly regress, as multiple people,
usually with little to add, would chime in—seemingly to show
off, or to curry favor. Worse yet, some of these lengthy asides
seemed to be aimed at running out the clock—with the speaker
extending unproductive conversations before their own area
would come under fire.
     Meetings like that were painful to attend. The Earn Trust
leadership principle exists in part to prevent this behavior from
occurring. It states, “Leaders listen attentively, speak candidly,
and treat others respectfully. They are vocally self-critical,
even when doing so is awkward or embarrassing. Leaders do
not believe their or their team’s body odor smells of perfume.
They benchmark themselves and their teams against the best.”
But these meetings, in the early days, clearly exemplified
where we failed to live up to that principle. The original, well-
intentioned meeting was set up to improve the software
systems from one week to the next. But it gained a life of its
own, and sometimes turned a roomful of smart people with
probing questions into an angry mob, devouring those who
could make a difference and robbing them of their very will to
succeed.
     What should we have done? Even though, as we’ve
mentioned, there is no one person running the meeting—
different people take over for different slides—the most senior
person should be responsible for setting the tone and ground
rules every week. That person should also, in this case, have
limited attendance to owners and key stakeholders, and also
limited the metrics to be reviewed to a specific, essential set:
irrelevant metrics should have been deleted from the deck. All
of us leaders of that software group, not just that one
individual, should have examined the meeting as relentlessly
as the participants were examining one another. Collectively,
we should have recognized that many of the areas being
measured were not yet operationally under control and
predictable. Many of the teams had skipped the first three
DMAIC steps—define, measure, analyze—in an attempt to
operate at the Improve stage. They ended up chasing blips on a
graph with not much to show for their effort. We should have
—politely and constructively!—recommended they do the
necessary legwork to convert their metrics from noise to
signal.
    Last, we should have recognized that implementing a
WBR for this new group for the first time was bound to be
messy, requiring trial and error. In the end, we should have
ensured that attendees felt free to talk about their mistakes and
were actively encouraged to do so, allowing others to learn
from them. The key to these meetings is to create a balance
between extremely high standards and an atmosphere where
people feel comfortable talking about mistakes.
    One Amazonian still recalls those disaster meetings even
though they occurred more than 15 years ago. He said,
    You’re really looking for teams to be willing to take
    themselves apart, to become naked in front of everyone,
    to say: “I screwed up. This wasn’t right. Here’s where it
    broke.” But I remember one particular leader who said
    instead, “Who is the person with poor judgment who did
    that?”
        The problem with statements like that is that people
    are basically convicted and sentenced before they’ve even
    responded. The leader should have reserved judgment
    instead of attacking, then begun to understand what
    actually happened. People are only trying to do the right
    thing; they’re not trying to sabotage the business, and they
    don’t hate customers. They feel tremendous responsibility
    for what they build.
        Since then, we’ve gotten to be more mature, grounded
    in freedom from fear. Every time we do the awesome
    thing, of course we try to reward it. And the more a team
    eviscerates itself, being vocally self-critical, the more we
    try to reward that too. If a team is papering things over,
    and hasn’t looked at the customer experience, then you
    might ask hard questions.
     Two things are striking about this recollection. The first is
how vivid it remains so many years after the fact—evidence
that a punishing environment can leave indelible marks. The
second is that this team learned from these early missteps,
made adjustments, and eventually built a better process.
            Pitfall 2: Noise Obscuring the Signal
Contradictory as this may sound, variation in data is normal.
And unavoidable. It’s therefore critical to differentiate normal
variation (noise) from some fundamental change or defect in a
process (signal). Trying to attach meaning to variations within
normal bounds is at best a waste of effort and at worst
dangerously misleading. It’s bad enough when someone
proudly explains how their herculean efforts moved their key
metric up by 0.1 percent this week, taking precious time away
from more important things. Worse, if that same metric went
down by 0.1 percent, you could easily waste time chasing
down the root cause and “fixing” an issue that’s really nothing
more than normal variation.
     At Amazon, understanding what’s normal is the
responsibility of the metrics owner, whether that’s an
individual contributor or a manager of thousands. Many
statistical methods, such as XMR control charts,3 can highlight
when a process is out of control. For us, however, experience
and a deep understanding of the customer most often turned
out to be the best way to filter out the signal from the
background noise. For the most part, metrics are reviewed
daily by their owners and weekly in the WBR, so that
expected fluctuations become familiar and exceptions stand
out.



Amazon’s approach to metrics embodies the Customer
Obsession leadership principle. The relevance of Customer
Obsession becomes evident in the company’s focus on input
versus output metrics. If you look at the input metrics for
Amazon, they often describe things customers care about, such
as low prices, lots of available products, fast shipping, few
customer service contacts, and a speedy website or app. A lot
of the output metrics, such as revenue and free cash flow, are
what you’d typically see in a company’s financial report.
Customers don’t care about those. But as we stated at the
beginning of this book, Amazon has an unshakable conviction
that the long-term interests of shareowners are perfectly
aligned with the interests of customers. Controllable input
metrics are a quantitative (diving deep with data) and
qualitative (anecdotes) way of measuring how well the
organization is satisfying these customer interests so that the
output metrics trend the way the company desires.
     Properly evaluating your business and striving to improve
each week requires a willingness to openly discuss failures,
learn from them, and always look for inventions that will
delight customers even more.
Part Two



The Invention Machine at
         Work
Introduction to Part Two


Now we come to the application—the proof that the elements
that go into being Amazonian produce results. In 2015 Jeff
wrote, “We want to be a large company that’s also an
invention machine. We want to combine the extraordinary
customer-serving capabilities that are enabled by size with the
speed of movement, nimbleness, and risk-acceptance
mentality normally associated with entrepreneurial start-ups.”1
And as we’ll see, there is a direct link between careful
observation of the practices enumerated in part one and the
impressive successes and breakthroughs at Amazon, including
services like Amazon Prime and Prime Video, hardware like
Kindle and Alexa (Kindle is also a service), practices like Bar
Raiser hiring and Working Backwards, and businesses like
Amazon Web Services and Amazon Echo and Alexa.
     Of course, Jeff also wrote in that same shareholder letter,
“I believe we are the best place in the world to fail (we have
plenty of practice!), and failure and invention are inseparable
twins. To invent you have to experiment, and if you know in
advance that it’s going to work, it’s not an experiment. Most
large organizations embrace the idea of invention, but are not
willing to suffer the string of failed experiments necessary to
get there.” Thus for Amazon, its less successful inventions,
such as Fire Phone, are valuable. The same is true of the off-
target early iterations of later successes, such as Amazon
Unbox, which evolved into Prime Video, and Amazon
Auctions and zShops, which developed into Amazon
Marketplace. These “failures” are important parts of the
company’s story, both as precursors to later successes and as
evidence that experimentation is happening.
     Naturally, if you don’t have the budget to invent, don’t do
it. But, even with a limited budget, you can be successful over
time if your approach is patient and frugal. Being Amazonian
means approaching invention with long-term thinking and
customer obsession, ensuring that the Leadership Principles
guide the way, and deploying the practices to drive execution.
“Long-term thinking levers our existing abilities and lets us do
new things we couldn’t otherwise contemplate,” Jeff wrote.
“Long-term orientation interacts well with customer obsession.
If we can identify a customer need and if we can further
develop conviction that that need is meaningful and durable,
our approach permits us to work patiently for multiple years to
deliver a solution.”2 Key word: patiently. Many companies
will give up on an initiative if it does not produce the kind of
returns they are looking for within a handful of years. Amazon
will stick with it for five, six, seven years—all the while
keeping the investment manageable, constantly learning and
improving—until it gains momentum and acceptance.
     The other key is frugality. You can’t afford to pursue
inventions for very long if you spend your money on things
that don’t lead to a better customer experience, like trade show
booths, big teams, and splashy marketing campaigns. Amazon
Music and Prime Video are examples of how we kept our
investment manageable for many years by being frugal:
keeping the team small, staying focused on improving the
customer experience, limiting our marketing spend, and
managing the P&L carefully. Once we had a clear product plan
and vision for how these products could become billion-dollar
businesses that would delight tens, even hundreds of millions
of consumers, we invested big. Patience and carefully
managed investment over many years can pay off greatly.
     Invention is not the solution to every problem. For
instance, when Amazon started, the company did not create its
own computer hardware. On the flip side, when we were
planning our e-book business, we decided to get into the
hardware game with Kindle. The reason: invention works well
where differentiation matters. In the company’s early days, the
hardware that powered Amazon’s data centers was not the
point of differentiation with the customer—creating a
compelling book-buying online experience was. Whereas with
Kindle, as we will describe in chapter seven, others were
selling e-books, so there was real value in owning and
controlling the creation of an outstanding device for our
customers to read them on. Differentiation with customers is
often one of the key reasons to invent.
     And what was true yesterday may not be true today. In
fact, today Amazon does make some computer hardware to
power its data centers. That’s because this special-purpose
hardware designed for AWS’s data centers reduces costs and
increases reliability in a nontrivial way. These benefits can be
passed on to AWS customers in the form of meaningful price
decreases and services that offer higher reliability.
     When we have invented, our long-term, patient approach
—driven by customer need—has been fundamentally different
from the more conventional “skills-forward” approach to
invention, in which a company looks for new business
opportunities that neatly fit with its existing skills and
competencies. While this approach can be rewarding, there is a
fundamental problem with it: the company will never be
driven to master new skills and develop new competencies,
hire new kinds of leaders, or create different types of
organizations. Amazon’s Working Backwards process—
starting with customer needs, not corporate needs or
competencies—often demands that, in Jeff’s words, we
“exercise new muscles, never mind how uncomfortable and
awkward-feeling those first steps might be.”
    In this part of the book, we look at four key examples of
successful Amazonian invention—Kindle, Amazon Prime,
Prime Video, and Amazon Web Services (AWS)—but there
are many others we could highlight and haven’t mentioned,
such as Fulfillment by Amazon, Amazon Echo and Alexa, and
Kindle Direct Publishing.
     We won’t dedicate a full chapter to one of the failures, but
it’s worth mentioning one here in brief. The Amazon Fire
Phone is an example of a well-executed process that produced,
well, a dud. The launch of the Fire Phone was one of the
largest new product initiatives the company had undertaken.
The phone’s primary differentiator was a feature called
“dynamic perspective,” a 3D effect produced by four cameras
within the phone, along with a positioning gyroscope. More
than a thousand people worked on the many elements required
to create the phone’s 3D capability and a number of smaller
innovations, as well as the more standard features and
functions that would affect the customer experience. Some 30
apps were involved, for one-touch customer service, free
photo storage in the Amazon cloud, a clock, a calendar, a
music player, Kindle, and on and on.
    Fire Phone launched in June 2014. In August 2015, it was
discontinued. What happened?
     First, even with the PR/FAQ process, the Fire Phone did
not solve a sufficiently important customer problem or create a
notably wonderful customer experience. I (Bill) remember
wondering, when I first learned about the project in 2012, why
anybody would want a 3D effect on their phone, cool though it
was. Here’s a snippet from the press release the day it
launched:
    SEATTLE—(BUSINESS WIRE)—Jun. 18, 2014—
    (NASDAQ: AMZN)—Amazon today unveiled Fire, the
    first smartphone designed by Amazon. Fire is the only
    smartphone with Dynamic Perspective and Firefly, two
    new breakthrough technologies that allow you to see and
    interact with the world through a whole new lens.
    Dynamic Perspective uses a new sensor system to respond
    to the way you hold, view, and move Fire, enabling
    experiences not possible on other smartphones. Firefly
    quickly recognizes things in the real world—web and
    email addresses, phone numbers, QR and bar codes,
    movies, music, and millions of products, and lets you take
    action in seconds—all with the simple press of the Firefly
    button.3
    Second, the phone sold at a premium price. One of
Amazon’s guiding principles is Frugality, and we had
demonstrated to the world that we were the cost-effective,
break-the-business-model company. To customers, the core
principle simply meant low prices. Now we were offering a
phone for $200, the same price as the iPhone, and it required a
two-year commitment with a mobile carrier. ($200 sounds
cheap now, but back then mobile phones were subsidized and
prices were a lot lower.) We dropped the price to $99 and then
offered it for free. It didn’t matter. Nobody wanted it.
     Finally, the Fire Phone came late to market and with only
a single carrier, AT&T. By that time, iPhone service was
available through four carriers that all offered a number of
other brands as well. There was a lot of competition on the
shelf and in the air.
     If we had offered the Fire Phone at a lower price point
than the iPhone, with most of the features and a commitment
to Prime, would that have made the difference? Possibly.
     The point of the story, however, is that the process
improves your odds of success but by no means guarantees it.
Jeff himself was deeply involved in the development of the
Fire Phone. He was effectively one of the authors of the
PR/FAQ, along with project leaders Ian Freed and Cameron
Janes. He and the team either believed or convinced
themselves that they were creating a phone customers would
love, but they were wrong. Even the best process can only
improve the quality of your decision-making; no process will
make the decision for you.
     Indeed, the failure of the Fire Phone did not cause Jeff to
question the process that created it. “We all know that if you
swing for the fences,” he wrote, “you’re going to strike out a
lot, but you’re also going to hit some home runs.” Unlike
baseball, where a home run can bring in no more than four
runs, a big business hit can score an almost infinite number of
runs. What’s crucial to understand is that a small number of
very big winners can pay for a large number of experiments
that fail or succeed only modestly.
     In an interview after the Fire Phone was withdrawn, Jeff
was asked about its failure and answered, “If you think that’s a
big failure, we’re working on much bigger failures right now
—and I am not kidding.”4 The magnitude of your inventions,
and therefore your mistakes, needs to grow in lockstep with
the growth of your organization. If it doesn’t, your inventions
will likely not be big enough to move the needle.
     As a company grows larger, it can become more difficult
to keep the invention machine humming, and one impediment
is “one-size-fits-all” decision-making. In the same 2015
shareholder letter, Jeff wrote, “Some decisions are
consequential and irreversible or nearly irreversible—one-way
doors—and these decisions must be made methodically,
carefully, slowly, with great deliberation and consultation. If
you walk through and don’t like what you see on the other
side, you can’t get back to where you were before. We can call
these Type 1 decisions. But most decisions aren’t like that—
they are changeable, reversible—they’re two-way doors. If
you’ve made a suboptimal Type 2 decision, you don’t have to
live with the consequences for that long. You can reopen the
door and go back through. Type 2 decisions can and should be
made quickly by high judgment individuals or small groups.”
Prime was a two-way door decision. If Prime’s particular
combination of subscription, free shipping, and quick delivery
had not worked, we’d have kept tinkering with the formula
until we got it right. In fact, Prime was not our first go at
solving the problem—it was preceded by another two-way
door decision, Super Saver Shipping, which eventually
morphed into Prime. The Fire Phone, on the other hand, was
more of a one-way door decision: upon withdrawing it from
the market, Amazon did not turn around and say, “Okay, that
happened, now let’s try another phone.”
     Big companies tend to develop a decision-making process
that is designed to manage one-way door decisions, precisely
because poor decisions can lead to big problems, even disaster.
The process is typically slow, cumbersome, and riddled with
risk aversion. This process tends to become the dominant one
in large companies, and it is routinely, almost thoughtlessly,
applied to two-way door decisions. The result is reduced
speed, impaired idea generation, stifled innovation, and longer
development cycles.
     That’s why Amazon focuses on the speed of movement,
nimbleness, and a risk-acceptance mentality associated with a
Day One startup—all the while adhering to the highest
standards. This approach has been part of being Amazonian
since the early days of the company. In 1999 Jeff wrote, “We
must be committed to constant improvement, experimentation,
and innovation in every initiative. We love to be pioneers, it’s
in the DNA of the company, and it’s a good thing, too, because
we’ll need that pioneering spirit to succeed.”5
7
Kindle
    Bill gets an unwelcome assignment. Amazon’s move to digital as an example
    of Working Backwards. Can Amazon build hardware? To outsource, or not to
    outsource? Building a device that gets out of the reader’s way. The launch
    and a boost from Oprah.




AMAZON SVP (aggressively skeptical): Exactly how much
  more money are you willing to invest in Kindle?
JEFF (turns calmly to CFO, smiling, shrugging his shoulders):
   How much money do we have?
In January 2004, my manager, Steve Kessel, invited me (Bill)
to a meeting in his office, where he proceeded to drop the
bombshell I described in the introduction. After rising through
the ranks over the previous four years at Amazon to become
VP of worldwide media (books, music, video) retail, Steve
was being promoted to SVP, would now report directly to Jeff
(joining the S-Team), and would be taking on the task of
building a new digital media business. He wanted me to join
him to become the leader of the digital media business team
(H. B. Siegel would run the engineering org), a move Jeff had
blessed.
     Initially I was upset about being passed over to take the
job Steve was leaving. After serving as a director in the U.S.
books, music, and video unit—which accounted for 77 percent
of Amazon’s global revenue at that time1—and feeling my
career was finally taking off, now my boss was asking me to
help lead one of the company’s smallest ventures, if not the
smallest. At that time, the Amazon digital media business
consisted of our newly launched Search Inside the Book
feature plus the e-books team (roughly five people), all buried
deep in Steve’s organization and generating a few million
dollars in annual revenue—and based on the e-book market at
that time, there didn’t seem to be any real prospects for
growth. This small team would move, along with Steve, H. B.,
and me, out of the retail org and initiate the Amazon digital
media org.
     But as Steve explained Jeff’s thinking, I began to feel
differently. Jeff, Steve told me, had decided that Amazon was
at an important crossroads, and now was the time to act.
Though the physical media business was growing, we all
understood that over time it would decline in popularity and
importance as the media business shifted to digital. That year,
fiscal 2004, Apple sold 4.4 million iPods—about four times
more than the prior year—and the proliferation of shared
digital music files online had already prompted a decline in
sales of music CDs. It seemed only a matter of time before
sales of physical books and DVDs would decline as well,
replaced by digital downloads.
    Jeff felt we had to act right away. And once Jeff made up
his mind, he exercised the Bias for Action leadership principle.
     For my career path, this could either mean getting one of
the best seats on a rocket ship or working for years on a small
business that never gets off the ground. As I was to discover,
the path to success in digital would be long and riddled with
setbacks, hard lessons, false starts, and painful failures. But as
noted, we didn’t expect anything different. There were times
when we had heated debates about what products to build and
how we should build them. Should we focus on books, music,
or video? Should we build a subscription service, make it free
with advertisements, let people buy à la carte, or all of the
above? Should we build our own devices or partner with
manufacturers? Should we acquire companies to accelerate our
entry into digital? Throughout the organization, leaders,
including some members of the board of directors, questioned
why we should invest so much time, effort, and money on
digital media. For as you’ll see, the skills required to succeed
in digital media are quite different from what’s needed to excel
at delivering physical goods sold online.
    But we (the leaders and members of the digital media
team) were persistent, always ready to reinvent our approach,
change our tactics, and iterate on our strategy. We were guided
by an unwavering long-term goal—to create a large digital
media business that invested in new services (and devices) that
consumers loved—and by Jeff’s ever-present reminder that no
matter what we did, we had to constantly push to figure out the
right experience for our customers.
    It would take several years for our digital effort to gain a
foothold and become a meaningful business.
     A few days after that first meeting with Steve, I accepted
the digital media role. A few months later, I was promoted to
vice president. After an org change or two, I settled into my
role as the VP of Amazon’s digital Music and Video groups
until I left the company at the end of 2014. During that time, I
either observed, participated in, or acted as the leader of the
development of the Kindle e-book reader, Fire Tablet, Fire TV,
Prime Video, Amazon Music, Amazon Studios, and our voice-
activated Echo speaker and the underlying Alexa voice
assistant technology.
     Over our long march to building Amazon’s digital
business, we proved a powerful lesson: it takes exceptionally
patient and unwavering leadership to persevere through the
prolonged process of building a new business and navigating
through transformative times in an established industry with
entrenched interests. The fact that we entered as total
beginners and emerged as industry leaders is in no small part a
result of our adherence to being Amazonian in our principles
and our way of thinking, including thinking big, thinking long-
term, being obsessed with customers, being willing to be
misunderstood for long periods of time, and being frugal—
principles that few companies are capable of maintaining in
the face of quarterly reporting requirements and the daily
gyrations of the stock market. Many companies with a lot
more capital than Amazon had at the time tried and failed to
build a digital business. Even if your company is smaller than
your competitors, adhering to these principles will enable you
to punch above your weight.
                 Making the Turn to Digital
Amazon was not alone in recognizing the need to invest in
digital media and acquire new capabilities. The popularity of
the digital music file-sharing service Napster, which had taken
off in June 1999, had been a signal to all of us that there was a
shift in consumer demand away from physical media to digital
media.
     In fall 2003, Jeff, Colin, and Diego Piacentini—a former
Apple VP who was at that time Amazon’s SVP of Worldwide
Retail—left the Amazon offices in Seattle late one afternoon
and traveled to the Apple campus in Cupertino to meet with
Steve Jobs, who had invited us down for a visit. Jobs and
another Apple employee greeted us, then ushered us into a
nondescript conference room with a Windows PC and two
platters of takeout sushi. We had an informal discussion about
the state of the music industry while doing some serious
damage to the sushi platters, for it was already past
dinnertime. After dabbing his mouth with a napkin, Jobs
segued into the real purpose of the meeting and announced
that Apple had just finished building their first Windows
application. He calmly and confidently told us that even
though it was Apple’s first attempt to build for Windows, he
thought it was the best Windows application anyone had ever
built. He then personally gave us a demo of the soon-to-be
launched iTunes for Windows.
     During the demo, Jobs talked about how this move would
transform the music industry. Up until this point, if you
wanted to buy digital music from Apple, you needed a Mac,
which comprised less than 10 percent of the home computer
market. Apple’s first foray into building software on the
competing Windows platform showed how serious they were
about the digital music market. Now anyone with a computer
would be able to purchase digital music from Apple.
     Jobs said that CDs would go the way of other outdated
music formats like the cassette tape, and their importance and
portion of overall music sales would drop quickly. His next
comment could reasonably be construed as either a matter-of-
fact statement, an attempt to elicit an angry retort, or an
attempt to goad Jeff into making a bad business decision by
acting impulsively. He said, “Amazon has a decent chance of
being the last place to buy CDs. The business will be high-
margin but small. You’ll be able to charge a premium for CDs,
since they’ll be hard to find.” Jeff did not take the bait. We
were their guests and the rest of the meeting was uneventful.
But we all knew that being the exclusive seller of antique CDs
did not sound like an appealing business model.
     While it is tempting to suggest the meeting impacted
Jeff’s thinking, only Jeff can speak to that. What we can say is
what Jeff did and did not do afterward. What he didn’t do (and
what many companies would have done) is to kick off an all-
hands-on-deck project to combat this competitive threat, issue
a press release claiming how Amazon’s new service would
win the day, and race to build a copycat digital music service.
Instead, Jeff took time to process what he learned from the
meeting and formed a plan. A few months later, he appointed a
single-threaded leader—Steve Kessel—to run Digital, who
would report directly to him so that they could work together
to formulate a vision and a plan for digital media.
     In other words, his first action was not a “what” decision,
it was a “who” and “how” decision. This is an incredibly
important difference. Jeff did not jump straight to focusing on
what product to build, which seems like the straightest line
from A to B. Instead, the choices he made suggest he believed
that the scale of the opportunity was large and that the scope of
the work required to achieve success was equally large and
complex. He focused first on how to organize the team and
who was the right leader to achieve the right result.
     Though the shift to digital was already beginning to
happen, no one could predict when the tide would really turn.
No one wanted to get in too early, with a product that did not
yet have a market. But no one wanted to miss the moment
either and be unable to catch up. We knew that we’d need to
invent our way out of this dilemma by obsessing over what the
best customer experience would be in this new paradigm. Our
inherent DNA of customer focus, long-term thinking, and
invention were assets in this case.
     Retailers like Walmart, Barnes & Noble, and even
Amazon’s online media business—as well as such media
giants as Disney, Universal Music, Warner, and Random
House—were all major players in either the creation or the
distribution of physical media. Microsoft, Apple, Google,
Netflix, Walmart, Disney, Samsung, Sony, Warner, and many
more would pour billions of dollars into digital media in the
coming years. It was plain for all these companies to see that
the change was coming. Some of these companies were better
positioned than Amazon was to capitalize on it, and others
were ill equipped to take advantage of that change or to lead it.
Some of their investments would produce successes (YouTube,
Hulu, Spotify, almost everything Apple touched) while many
others led to write-offs and failures (Microsoft Zune, Sony E-
Reader, Nook, PressPlay, MusicNet). At that time Amazon
decidedly did not have billions to spend on digital media or
anything else, so we would need to lean heavily on the
Frugality principle to stay in the game with the bigger players.
     Jeff was a student of history and regularly reminded us
that if a company didn’t or couldn’t change and adapt to meet
shifting consumer needs, it was doomed. “You don’t want to
become Kodak,” he would say, referring to the once-mighty
photography giant that had missed the turn from film to
digital. We weren’t going to sit back and wait for this to
happen to Amazon.
     Conceptually, I understood and accepted this history
lesson. What I didn’t get was why Steve and I had to change
jobs and build up a whole new organization. Why couldn’t we
manage digital media as part of what we were already doing?
After all, we would be working with the same partners and
suppliers. The media had to come from somewhere and that
somewhere was media companies: book publishers, record
companies, and motion picture studios. I already managed the
co-op marketing relationships with those companies, so it
made sense that we should do this within the same
organization and build off the knowledge and success of our
strong team. Otherwise, Amazon would have two different
groups responsible for business relationships with partners and
suppliers.
     But Jeff felt that if we tried to manage digital media as a
part of the physical media business, it would never be a
priority. The bigger business carried the company after all, and
it would always get the most attention. Steve told me that
getting digital right was highly important to Jeff, and he
wanted Steve to focus on nothing else. Steve wanted me to
join him and help him create the new business.
     This change would be one of the first major examples of
the single-threaded leader org structure concept at Amazon.
Before Steve moved over to head Digital, the most senior
leader of the digital media business was a product manager,
four levels below Steve. There was no way that someone at
that level could lead and develop the kinds of new products
and initiatives that we would launch in the coming years. For
this to become one of Amazon’s biggest and most important
businesses, Jeff needed Steve, an experienced and proven vice
president (now promoted to senior vice president), reporting to
Jeff, single-threaded on digital. Steve would in turn need to
build a team of senior leaders under him, each of whom would
be single-threaded on one aspect of the business, such as
device hardware, e-books, music, or video.
     Eventually, I appreciated the importance of organizing
this way. If we had tried to figure out how to deliver digital
media while also managing our online physical-media
business, we could not have moved quickly enough. We would
not have thought big enough about how to reinvent the
customer experience as we did when we built our own e-
reader device and service. The customer experience would
undoubtedly have been a subpar mishmash of the physical and
digital business approaches. We had to start from scratch.
    And this sudden job change, the one I’d been so
disappointed by, would prove to be not only the right thing for
the company but also one of the best things to ever happen for
my career.
The Startup Phase for Amazon Digital Media and Devices
To work through the details of our approach to digital books,
music, and video, we spent roughly six months researching the
digital media landscape and meeting as a leadership team with
Jeff on a weekly basis to review and brainstorm countless
ideas and concepts.
     We met with our partners at the media companies (book
publishers, record companies, motion picture studios) to
discuss the current state and future of e-books, digital music,
and video. The e-book business already existed, but publishers
were not investing in it, and they certainly weren’t positioning
it for growth; they produced a small catalog of books and
applied the same high prices as hardcovers. With piracy
rapidly killing the CD business and Apple selling millions of
songs on iTunes to millions of iPod customers, the record
companies were eager for us to jump in fast so they would
have more retailers to deal with—not just Apple.
     There was no digital movie and TV show business at the
time. The content creators were, by nature, risk averse, skilled
at maximizing the cash flow from their existing operations, but
not at creating new ones. So they were not interested in
licensing their shows or movies to digital service providers
like Amazon hoped to be.
     In December 2004, Steve, Jeff, and I attended Music 2.0,
a digital music industry conference at the Hilton in Universal
City. At the time, Jeff was already well known to the business
and media world—Time had named him Man of the Year in
1999. It certainly wasn’t common for such a high-profile CEO
to show up at a conference like this one, so a palpable buzz
surrounded us wherever we went. People kept approaching
me, wanting me to help them get in front of Jeff.
     We listened to a number of speakers, one of whom was
Larry Kenswil, a senior executive at Universal Music, who
spoke about the current state of the digital music business. At
the time, it was divided into two camps: in one were services
like Napster that facilitated free file sharing; in the other, by
itself, was Apple, selling songs to load onto the iPod for 99
cents each. Larry was eager for more big tech companies to
enter the business, as that would mean more revenue for
Universal Music. He obviously knew that we were in the
audience, because he made a few comments pointed directly at
Jeff, effectively dissing Amazon for not being in the digital
music space and prodding us to jump in fast.
     One of the decisions we had to make in that first year was
whether to build a business or to buy a company already
operating in that space. We had many meetings with Jeff
where Steve and I would present our ideas for our music
product or a company we might acquire. Each time we had
these meetings, Jeff would reject what he saw as copycat
thinking, emphasizing again and again that whatever music
product we built, it had to offer a truly unique value
proposition for the customer. He would frequently describe the
two fundamental approaches that each company must choose
between when developing new products and services. We
could be a fast follower—that is, make a close copy of
successful products that other companies had built—or we
could invent a new product on behalf of our customers. He
said that either approach is valid, but he wanted Amazon to be
a company that invents.
     Why? For digital in particular, part of the answer was that
the industry was changing more rapidly than most. With a fast-
follower strategy, by the time we could have built and
deployed a reasonable replica of a competitor’s service, they
or someone else would have already created something better,
and we wouldn’t have had enough time to recoup returns on
our existing service before we had to build a different one. The
quick evolution of Apple’s music service from a tethered iPod
to a Mac to seamless discovery and playback on the iPhone
and iPad makes its own case for why the fast-follower strategy
would not have worked in the digital business. Jeff made clear
that people like the exec who’d baited him at the digital music
conference wouldn’t drive our process. He recognized that
building copycat versions of products like the iPod and the
iTunes store was a nonstarter. And he had no interest in
making a PR splash by announcing to the public that Amazon
had arrived in the digital business. He chose the path of
invention by looking beyond the music category, which led
him to begin Amazon’s foray into digital by focusing on e-
books and an e-reader device. In so doing, Jeff demonstrated
his belief that true invention leads to greater long-term value
for customers and shareholders.
     My team and I quickly learned that invention is a more
challenging path than fast following. The roadmap for fast
following is relatively clear—you study what your competitor
has built and copy it. There is no roadmap for invention.
     The invention approach required the endurance to
evaluate and discard many options and ideas. So, as we were
considering which path to take—build or buy—we took
countless meetings with different companies in the digital
media business. In addition to enabling us to understand our
options for potential acquisition, it was a productive way for
us to get up to speed quickly on different aspects of the digital
media business, as the founders and leaders of these
companies shared their experience and insights from working
on a variety of product challenges. In parallel, we were writing
some of our first PR/FAQs for digital media products, which
we would review and discuss with Jeff. The two processes
reinforced one another, and by the end of 2004, our thinking
and vision had become clearer. As that vision came into focus,
we began to design the organization and assemble a team.
     When Jeff asked Steve to run Digital, he also changed the
org structure at the top of the company. Previously, Steve had
reported to Diego Piacentini, SVP of Worldwide Retail, who
reported to Jeff. Now Steve reported directly to Jeff, a clear
sign that Digital was a high priority.
     There were two important benefits to this approach. First,
this meant that Steve was not encumbered with the many
responsibilities that went with managing any of Amazon’s
then-current businesses or operations; he was given the
autonomy and authority to devote single-threaded focus to
Digital. Second, it meant that Diego and his peers would not
be required to spend any of their time on Digital. They were
free to continue to devote their single-threaded focus to
building our retail and marketplace businesses as well as our
fulfillment network. Additionally, Jeff made an explicit choice
at this juncture that he would devote a significant portion of
his time to working directly with Steve and the leaders in
Digital, to align with them on product direction, and to ensure
they had the resources necessary to succeed. This necessarily
meant that Jeff was reducing his time and oversight of retail
and marketplace, ceding more autonomy to leaders like Diego
and Jeff Wilke.
     It was thanks to the combination of Amazon processes,
which we discussed in part one of the book, that Jeff was able
to make these changes. For example, the six-page document
and S-Team goals allowed Jeff to stay aligned on all major
retail and marketplace programs and give feedback in an
efficient manner, even as he devoted less calendar time to
those businesses. And for new initiatives in Digital (as well as
AWS), the PR/FAQ process enabled him to spend weeks or
months to gain alignment and clarity at a high level of detail
on each project. Once he and the team had aligned on each
detailed PR/FAQ, Digital and AWS leaders could then run as
hard as possible to build their teams and launch new products,
with the knowledge that they were in lockstep with the CEO.
This enabled Jeff to direct and influence multiple projects
simultaneously. This kind of alignment existed not because
Jeff was CEO but because we had a process in place that
enabled it. The same process could allow teams at any
company to work autonomously and yet be in sync with the
intentions of their leaders.
     On the organizational side, we used the two-pizza team
structure, which allowed our Digital teams to not be dependent
on or a distraction to the engineering and business teams
running the retail and marketplace business. Our people were
autonomous with respect to their ability to achieve the goals
that they had agreed to with Jeff. From Jeff’s point of view,
this meant he wouldn’t be stymied by arbitrating resource
conflicts and dependencies at the ground level. He could hold
each two-pizza team leader accountable for staffing their team
and achieving their goals. Furthermore, he could easily audit
whether an important initiative was staffed to succeed.
Because the teams were not dependent on other teams, Jeff
could be sure that planned work would actually get done and
wouldn’t be pocket vetoed elsewhere in the org. Without these
new processes, it would have been difficult or impossible for
him to make these big changes in how he organized the
company and allocated his time while achieving the right
outcomes. These methods allow the CEO (or other leader) to
achieve and maintain alignment with their org on what to build
and whether they have the resources to build it or not.
     Like other leaders at Amazon, I learned how to apply
these processes as my organization grew to increase my span
of control and achieve the right results across a variety of
complex products and projects. Thanks to these tools, within a
few years, I was able to dive deep, audit, and manage
hundreds of annual S-Team goals and new product initiatives
for which my many teams were responsible.
     We applied the new two-pizza structure to every part of
the org chart below Steve and his direct reports. The two-pizza
structure became more complicated at the top of the org chart.
For example, should product, engineering, and business
functions all report to a single leader? Or should each one be
run by its own leader, with those leaders in turn working as a
team on the product, engineering, and business details?
    We decided that there would be separate leaders for
business and tech for each digital product category—books,
music, and video. Each of these category leaders would hire
leaders for each business function, such as product
management, marketing/merchandising, and vendor/content
management (licensing digital content from publishers,
studios, and record companies). Each general manager (GM)
category leader had a corresponding peer leader on the
engineering side. Each engineering category had a two-pizza
team for each major component of the software services (e.g.,
content ingestion and transformation) and for client
application software. This was mostly a pragmatic decision
based on the skills of the leaders. For example, I had no
experience at that time managing an engineering organization.
The same was true of my peers on the engineering side with
respect to business. This would change in the years to come.
     Within months, it became clear that we would need to add
more senior leaders (who would report directly to Steve) to
run and manage each of the various component parts of the
vision. In the beginning of 2004, Steve had just two direct
reports: Bill, the business leader for Digital, and H. B. Siegel,
the engineering leader. By mid-2005, Steve had hired leaders
of the appropriate level and expertise to run each element of
our product and business vision and had modified the org
structure to accommodate them. With each modification, the
scope of each leader’s responsibilities would become
narrower, but the intended scale of each role was greater. At
most companies, reducing a leader’s scope would be
considered a demotion, and in fact there were many VPs and
directors who saw each of these changes in that way. At
Amazon, it was not a demotion. It was a signal that we were
thinking big and investing in digital for the long term.
     In my case, this meant that by 2005, instead of leading the
business team for digital books, music, and video, I was
focused on leading just music and video. In 2007, my scope
grew when I took on leadership of the engineering
organizations in addition to business. This process was
continuous as each year changes were made where the scope
of the work had become too broad to break up or divide teams
into subteams. A simple example: in 2004, video client
application development was handled by one two-pizza team.
It then became three teams, one for web, one for mobile
devices, one for TV devices. Then the mobile team became
four teams (iPhone, Android phone, iPad, Android tablet) and
the TV team became five-plus teams (Xbox, PlayStation,
TiVo, Sony Bravia, Samsung, etc.), such that by 2011 our
original two two-pizza teams were now more than ten.
     Some of the digital media leaders—including Neil
Roseman and Dan Rose—came from inside the company.
Others, like Erich Ringewald, had been with Amazon and left
for other pursuits, but near the end of 2004, we persuaded him
to return and lead the engineering team for digital music. We
recruited other leaders, including Gregg Zehr and Ian Freed, to
join us from companies including Palm and RealNetworks. By
mid-2005, the core leadership team was in place.
     In retrospect, the organizational structure we employed
was not radical or different from those of other companies.
The radical part was that these teams were established outside
of the then-current retail and marketplace business and
engineering organizations, and we were thinking big and long
term by hiring and building a large organization to support
three speculative, new businesses.
                Amazon: A Device Maker?!
The reasons we needed not only a new team but also new
capabilities like device hardware became evident through our
product ideation sessions. Jeff zeroed in on the fundamental
difference between the digital media retail business and our
existing physical media retail business. Our competitive
advantage in physical media was based on having the broadest
selection of items available on a single website. But this could
not be a competitive advantage in digital media, where the
barrier to entry was low. Any company, whether a well-funded
startup or an established enterprise, could match our offering.
In those days, while it took time and effort, any company
could build an e-book store or a 99-cent music download store
where they offered the same breadth and depth of books and
songs as every other digital venue. They just had to be willing
to undertake the tedious work of aggregating all the digital
music files or e-books into a single online catalog. So we
knew we couldn’t meet Jeff’s requirement that our digital
business have a distinct and differentiated offering just on
selection and aggregation.
     Another key element of our competitive advantage in the
physical retail business was our ability to offer consistently
low prices. If you think back to the flywheel of growth, this
was associated with our lower cost structure in comparison to
other retailers, because we had no stores. But cost structure
was not a factor in digital. The process and costs associated
with hosting and serving digital files were basically the same
whether you were Amazon, Google, Apple, or a startup. There
was no known fundamental difference that would allow one
company to gain a competitive advantage and win over the
long term by having lower digital media operating costs and
passing those savings on to the consumer in the form of lower
digital media prices.
     When Jeff first met with Steve and asked him to take on
leadership of Digital and Devices, he drew a version of this
picture on the whiteboard (without the now-current icons and
graphics that we have added here to make it easier to
understand):




     He explained to Steve that there was an important
difference in the digital media value chain as well. In physical
retail, Amazon operated at the middle of the value chain. We
added value by sourcing and aggregating a vast selection of
goods, tens of millions of them, on a single website and
delivering them quickly and cheaply to customers.
     To win in digital, because those physical retail value adds
were not advantages, we needed to identify other parts of the
value chain where we could differentiate and serve customers
well. Jeff told Steve that this meant moving out of the middle
and venturing to either end of the value chain. On one end was
content, where the value creators were book authors,
filmmakers, TV producers, publishers, musicians, record
companies, and movie studios. On the other end was
distribution and consumption of content. In digital, that meant
focusing on applications and devices consumers used to read,
watch, or listen to content, as Apple had already done with
iTunes and the iPod. We all took note of what Apple had
achieved in digital music in a short period of time and sought
to apply those learnings to our long-term product vision.
    Our core competencies did not extend to either end of the
value chain.
    Steve did not let this get in the way. In one of our
meetings, he said that a typical company that wanted to grow
would take stock of its existing capabilities and ask, “What
can we do next with our skill set?” He emphasized that
Amazon’s approach was always to start from the customer and
work backwards. We would figure out what the customers’
needs were and then ask ourselves, “Do we have the skills
necessary to build something that meets those needs? If not,
how can we build or acquire them?” Once we determined what
was necessary to create value for our customers and to
differentiate ourselves from our competitors, we didn’t let our
lack of ability deter us from achieving this important end
result—our own device.
      So, although we knew nothing about building hardware,
Jeff and Steve decided that the place to start was at the
consumption end of the chain: hardware, specifically e-books.
There were multiple reasons for this. One was that books were
still the single largest category at Amazon and the one most
associated with the company. Music was the first category to
move to digital in the marketplace, but Apple had a big head
start and our sessions did not produce a PR/FAQ for a music
device or service idea that was sufficiently compelling. Video
had not gone digital yet, which seemed like an opportunity, but
it became apparent that there were a number of barriers to
creating a great video experience at that time. These included
getting the rights from the studios to offer their movies and TV
shows digitally, the time it would take to download massive
video files over the slow (at the time) internet, and uncertainty
about how consumers would play these video files on their
TVs. Based on these factors, we decided to make a big
investment of people and funds in e-books and a reading
device and establish much smaller teams to work on music and
video.
     The other reason for starting with books was that the e-
book business as a whole was tiny; there was no good way to
read e-books on a device other than a PC, and reading on a PC
was definitely not a good experience. We believed that
customers would want the e-book equivalent of the
iTunes/iPod experience: an app paired with a mobile device
that offered consumers any book ever written, the content
available at a low price that they could buy, download, and
start reading in seconds. But we would need to invent the
device ourselves, and the potential development time might
take years.
     The idea that Amazon, a pure e-commerce distributor of
retail products made by others, would become a hardware
company and make and sell its own reader device was
controversial. Like nearly everyone at Amazon outside our
Digital leadership team, I had a really hard time accepting that
it was a good idea to make our own hardware when it seemed
that nearly every leader in the company and on the board of
directors was questioning it. Like everyone else, I thought it
was super expensive (not adhering to the Frugality leadership
principle!) and would fail. I now recognize that going through
that process and seeing the outcome transformed my
understanding of how innovation works.
    I was a big believer in Steve, but I was vocal with my
concerns when we would meet one-on-one to discuss it.
“We’re an e-commerce company, not a hardware company!” I
would insist. I thought we should partner with third-party
equipment companies that were good at designing and
building hardware and stick to what we knew: e-commerce. I
regularly pointed out to Steve that he knew nothing about
hardware—he wasn’t a gadget guy, and his ancient Volvo
didn’t even have a car stereo.
     In our one-on-ones, Steve patiently explained why this
was the right decision. We had worked through countless
drafts of our PR/FAQ for an e-book store and device, and the
end result was clear: we needed to build an e-book store that
was deeply integrated with a reading device. This combination
was the key to delivering a book-buying and reading
experience that would delight customers. Through our
research, we learned that relying on third parties, while
operationally and financially less risky, was much riskier from
the point of view of customer experience. If we start with the
customer and work backwards, then the most logical
conclusion is that we need to create our own devices.
    The second point he made was that if you decide that the
long-term success and survival of your company, like any
company at a crossroads, is predicated on having a specific
capability that you do not currently have, then the company
must have a plan to build or buy it. We had to figure out how
to build the capability to make hardware devices internally. If
we wanted to ensure a great customer experience that was
differentiated on the far end of the value chain, we couldn’t
outsource—and therefore cede—that important innovation to
others. We had to do it ourselves.
     Our decision to become a hardware device manufacturer
would inform a number of decisions down the road. Many
companies that decide to enter a business area in which they
have little internal expertise or capability choose to outsource,
as happened in the early days of e-commerce when brick-and-
mortar retailers created their first online retail sites. They
brought in third-party developers, consultants, and sometimes
both. This approach enabled them to move much more
quickly. But it deprived them of the flexibility to innovate and
differentiate, and to continuously incorporate customer desire.
Retailers who outsourced e-commerce lacked the ability to
ideate and test new products like Super Saver Shipping, Prime,
or Fulfillment by Amazon (FBA). They could only pick from a
menu of options from their outsourced provider. At best, they
would be fast followers of what the innovators built. At worst,
in order to compete effectively they would have to implement
an end-to-end experience for the product (like Prime), from
their website, to their order management systems, to their
fulfillment centers, to their delivery methods. You can’t
outsource a customized, integrated, end-to-end experience.
     Furthermore, outsourcing in this context offers a classic
example of short-term decisions with devastating long-term
implications. Practically every day, Amazon could tweak its
offering to make things a little better. And so practically every
day, the distance between itself and its competitors widened.
Outsourcing turned out to be the more expensive path.
    There was another reason we decided to build the device
ourselves. If we had outsourced the work and succeeded in
creating the first great reader device, much of the knowledge
and know-how would accrue outside Amazon, in the minds
and methods of the outsourcer. Since the kind of partner we
would need was typically in the business of building custom
spec hardware for a wide range of clients, not just us, the
outsourcer might further develop the technology and
eventually offer a comparable or even better reader to other
companies, including our competitors. We wanted to be the
keepers of the intellectual property.
    The only way we had a chance at success was to put in
place strong leaders, so Steve set out to find a subject matter
expert with knowledge of the industry to lead our team in
creating a great hardware device. In September 2004, Steve
hired Gregg Zehr, a Silicon Valley veteran who had been a VP
of hardware engineering at Palm Computing and Apple.
     Gregg would set up a separate office in Silicon Valley, not
Seattle, in order to tap into the Silicon Valley technical talent
pool, which was much deeper than in Seattle, particularly for
hardware developers. It would be an important step in our
effort to hire outside leaders who could bring new capabilities
to our company and to develop centers of excellence away
from our home base. Unlike today, where the vast majority of
Amazon’s workforce is based outside the Seattle HQ, there
were at the time only two or three other remote development
centers, so it was still a relatively new concept for Amazon
and felt risky. We saw a remote operation like this one as a
means to an end, not an end in itself. We needed talent, and
Silicon Valley was where the talent was.
     There was considerable risk by putting so much on the
shoulders of senior external hires like Gregg Zehr. How could
we be sure that he would become Amazonian? The culture of
Silicon Valley is markedly different from Amazon’s culture.
How would he learn and adapt to our peculiar processes like
Bar Raiser, PR/FAQs, and six-pagers? These were issues that
we addressed through the Bar Raiser process itself, which was
the same whether you were a new college hire or a VP. I don’t
recall how many people we interviewed for Gregg’s role, but
there were quite a few, and most of them were more than
qualified with respect to their device hardware development
experience. Nevertheless, our interview process revealed the
ways in which they didn’t meet the bar for Amazon’s
Leadership Principles—it wasn’t easy to find a senior leader
who demonstrated them. In this case, the Bar Raiser interview
process with Steve acting as hiring manager clearly delivered
the right result. As of the writing of this book, Gregg remains
with Amazon fifteen years after he was hired, and he has been
responsible for the development and launch of many Amazon
devices.
     Steve tasked Gregg to build out a hardware organization,
which he did with the code name Lab126 (the 1 and 26 stood
for the letters A and Z), and earmarked a meaningful amount
of capital to the effort. In parallel, Neil Roseman and Felix
Anthony (both were experienced and trusted Amazon
Engineering VPs) established and hired software engineering
teams in Seattle to build the cloud and back-end systems that
would power the Kindle experience and e-book store. Later,
Ian Freed would become the leader of the product and
business organization. The combination of Gregg (device
hardware), Felix and Neil (cloud software), and Ian (product
and business), and the respective teams that they built, were
critical to the success of the Kindle. At a time when resources
were scarce throughout the company and groups operated as
leanly as possible, other teams were envious of the new Kindle
venture and its leaders who got to hire a big (about 150
people) team of engineers and product managers.
     In April 2005, we also acquired Mobipocket, a small
company based in France that had built a software application
for viewing and reading books on PCs and mobile devices. We
used the Mobipocket software as the basis for the software on
the first Kindle. Had we not acquired the company, we would
have needed to hire a team and build the same software
ourselves. We were impressed by their founder, Thierry
Brethes, and the team he had assembled, so we believed that
they would be great additions to the Amazon digital media
team. Since the Mobipocket team consisted of about ten
people, they remained in place as an Amazon two-pizza team
with a single-threaded focus on Kindle reader client-
application development.
     With the Mobipocket team and their software on board,
Gregg, Neil, Felix, and Ian started working in partnership with
Jeff to map out the details of the first device. Jeff told the team
that they had the audacious goal of improving on an invention
that had withstood the test of time, over five hundred years,
without much change: the book. The overarching theme in the
design stage was that our electronic book reader should “get
out of the way” so the reader could make a direct connection
with the content. Once the person started reading, they should
not notice they were using a device.
   At some point early in the process, a name for the device
emerged: Kindle.
     Between 2004 and 2007, the vast majority of the people,
money, and resources earmarked for digital media was poured
into the Kindle effort. The organization grew by dozens of
people, most of them new to Amazon—including Ian Freed,
who was a veteran of Real Networks. Jeff stayed so deeply
involved in the project that he was unofficially known as the
chief product manager for Kindle.
     We’d known the Kindle would take time and money to
develop, but by the middle of 2005, it became clear that it was
taking much longer and consuming more funds than we had
anticipated. Sometime in 2005, a subset of the S-Team met
with members of the finance team to review the company’s
consolidated OP1. There was a heated discussion about the
surprising ramp-up in expenses across many areas, particularly
with Kindle. At some point in the debate, someone asked Jeff
point blank: “How much more money are you willing to invest
in Kindle?” Jeff calmly turned to our CFO, Tom Szkutak,
smiled, shrugged his shoulders, and asked the rhetorical
question, “How much money do we have?” That was his way
of signaling the strategic importance of Kindle and assuring
the team that he was not putting the company at risk with the
size of the investment. In Jeff’s view, it was way too early to
give up on the project.
    Development continued.
                    Kindle Takes Shape
The idea of “getting out of the way” of the reading experience
drove several key decisions in the Kindle design process, and
we drew inspiration from devices that others had built,
particularly the BlackBerry. In those days Jeff and the other
senior executives at Amazon, including me, were addicted to
the Canadian wireless email device that had transformed itself
into the world’s first commercially successful smartphone. Jeff
went through many BlackBerry devices, not a few of which
had been fried by sweat dripping on them during his workouts.
     The feature that really attracted us was BlackBerry’s
constant connectivity. Like everyone, Jeff loved that his phone
was always connected and automatically refreshed itself to
display new email. In those early days of digital media, this
was a first. At the time, the only way to load content onto an
MP3 player or other portable device was to connect it to your
PC with a wire and sync the content between the two
machines. This process was known as “sideloading.” While it
was convenient to be able to take your music with you on your
portable device, the sideloading process was a pain for
consumers, and we learned from studies that the average
consumer would only bother to connect their iPod to their PC
once a year. That meant most people walked around without
the latest music on their devices. It was known as the “stale
iPod” syndrome.
      Jeff saw this as an opportunity. He wanted the Kindle to
be like the BlackBerry—no wires, never a need to connect to
your PC. Not only did he want us to eliminate sideloading
altogether, he wanted to build the bookstore right into the
device so you could shop and read on the go. For this to work,
he pushed hard for the Kindle to have a 3G modem so that it
could connect to a wireless carrier network (Sprint was our
first partner) and automatically download new e-books as soon
as they were available. The feature was named Whispernet.
    Whispernet was another incredibly controversial part of
the Kindle project. It had never been done before. Wireless
carriers jealously protected their relationships with cellular
customers. Here we were, proposing to create a direct wireless
relationship that eliminated the need for Kindle customers to
set up an account with a carrier, and we didn’t plan to charge
customers for the network access. Amazon would cover the
cost. Jeff, who insisted that Kindle have this capability,
instructed the team to find a way to absorb the expense within
the overall Kindle product design. Luckily, that requirement
wasn’t quite as onerous as it might sound, because e-book files
are quite small and the connection cost was therefore modest.
     This essential feature, Whispernet, was not easy to
develop. Establishing relationships with the wireless carriers
was a big hurdle. Adding a 3G modem would make the Kindle
a much more expensive device. Achieving the breakthrough
required a ton of invention by the team, but it would add a
great deal to the customer experience. With the ability to
download any book almost instantly and never have to link up
to a PC, the customer could become engrossed in their reading
much faster and with less friction.
     The other key feature we debated was the use of E Ink, a
nascent technology. It had been developed in the MIT Media
Lab and spun out as a company in 1997, but there were no
major commercial applications in 2005. Although Jeff and the
team were unified in their desire to use the new E Ink
technology,2 we recognized there would be some trade-offs. E
Ink screens were black-and-white only, so the Kindle could
not support color graphics or video. The transition from one
page to the next was slow. But the E Ink screen was much
easier on the eyes than the traditional backlit computer screen
and was readable in direct sunlight. It would also allow for a
much longer battery life, enabling the device to stay on for up
to one week without needing a charge. Both of these features
were ways for the Kindle to “get out of the way” so customers
would forget they were reading on a machine.
    We also constantly evaluated the “form factor” of the
Kindle—the size, shape, and ease of use—during the iterative
design review process. The first prototypes were nothing more
than Styrofoam cutouts with mocked-up screens and
keyboards. As the form took shape, we evaluated models made
of plastic that were weighted so the shape and feel would be as
close as possible to the real thing. At every review, Jeff would
spend several minutes holding each prototype in one hand,
then the other, then in both. When he rejected a prototype it
was typically not because the design wasn’t sleek or hip
enough but rather because something about it would “get in
the way” of the customer’s reading.
    These two features—wireless delivery and the E Ink
screen—proved to be two of the keys to making the Kindle
great. Wireless delivery meant that customers could search,
browse, buy, download, and start reading a new book in under
60 seconds. The E Ink screen’s paper-like display meant that,
unlike with an iPad, you could read by the pool, and its low
power consumption meant you could read throughout a 12-
hour plane flight without worrying about the device dying on
you. We take these features for granted today, but in those
days they were unheard of.
      Another issue we had to manage was the availability of
titles: selection did matter. As we prepared for launch, we
decided it would be necessary to push publishers to digitize
many more of their books—only a fraction of their lists was
available in e-book form at the time. We knew that to have a
successful e-book business, we would need to have a library of
millions of e-book titles—ideally, we would eventually offer a
digital copy of every book that had ever been in print.
    We knew that building such a vast library would be a
monumental undertaking, largely because publishers’ systems
were so antiquated. Once they sent the digital file of a new
book to the printer, they often didn’t bother to retain it. This
meant that for thousands and thousands of books, a digital
version would have to be created. Fortunately, we had an
advantage in this area. We had already developed the
capability for customers to preview several pages of a book
they were interested in—first called Look Inside the Book and
then improved to Search Inside the Book. We had worked with
publishers to manually digitize their books, so we understood
the process. And so we launched Kindle, with its connected e-
bookstore, with a selection of 90,000 e-books. The Sony e-
reader store, by contrast, offered only about 20,000 e-books.
     Then it was time to think about pricing. The goal was to
find a price point that would compel consumers to start buying
and reading e-books. We wanted to make e-books a growth
segment of the book business for authors, publishers, and us—
prior to the launch of Kindle, it was a tiny business (a few
million in annual sales) that wasn’t growing. We offered
selected bestsellers and new releases at $9.99, which was
roughly equal to Amazon’s wholesale cost for those e-books.
The price for the Kindle device itself was also very close to
our cost. And we were absorbing the cost of Whispernet.
While we made money on most of the books we sold and our
overall margins on e-book sales were positive (even after the
publishers raised their wholesale prices in an unsuccessful
attempt to force us to raise our $9.99 price on bestsellers and
new releases), the early P&L for this business projected little
returns in the near term. We were making a big up-front
investment in the customer experience, investing some near-
term profit in order to get the e-book business and our digital
media and devices business off the ground.
     We didn’t know if or when the cost per e-book would
come down and make this a more profitable and sustainable
business. We didn’t look at it through the short-term lens that
the publishers did. We focused on what would make sense to
customers and what it would take to get customers excited to
buy a Kindle and load it up with their favorite books. We took
a leap of faith, hoping that, over time, we would be able to
reduce the cost of the device and the books themselves.
     The Kindle went on sale for the first time on November
19, 2007. It retailed for $399 and featured a six-inch screen, a
keyboard, and 250 MB of memory, enough to hold about two
hundred non-illustrated books.3 It sold out so astonishingly
quickly—in less than six hours—that the team had to scramble
to find parts so they could manufacture more. While the
market seemed to like us, early reviews were mixed. Some
critics4 called Kindle inferior to the rival Sony Reader, which
sold for $100 less. Yet, when the team was finally able to build
more and get the device back in stock in February 2008, sales
continued to be strong.
    And then came Oprah.
    On October 24, 2008, she devoted an entire episode of her
show to Kindle, gushing, “It’s absolutely my new favorite
favorite thing in the world.”5 Because millions of viewers
looked to Oprah, the “Queen of Reading,” for book
recommendations, sales exploded.
     After the huge boost we got from Oprah, all the doubters
and naysayers and questioners jumped on the bandwagon—
Kindle was a hit! While Oprah was an important accelerant,
long-term sales of the Kindle were ensured by the excellence
of the product itself. Steve Kessel, who had devoted the vast
majority of his time to the Kindle effort, was asked to focus
solely on creating new versions of the Kindle and developing
other hardware devices as well.
     Our first big initiative in our shift to digital media—books
—was a success. But at that time, 2008, our digital music and
video businesses, which I’d been single-threaded focused on
since 2005, were a tiny effort struggling to find a path to
growth. With limited resources, no other breakthrough ideas,
and daunting competition from Apple (who had a big head
start), we had a lot more work to do before we could claim
digital as our future.
8
Prime
    Amazon’s need for top-line growth. Get it done in 11 weeks. Early iterations
    achieve success. Controlling the “click-to-ship” part of the delivery process.
    The effect on Amazon’s fulfillment process and organization. Jeff walks the
    store. The launch of Amazon Prime.




In mid-October 2004, several senior Amazon executives
received an email from Jeff Bezos that read roughly as
follows:
    We should not be satisfied with the growth of our retail
    business. This is a house-on-fire issue and we need to
    dramatically improve the customer experience around
    shipping. We need a shipping membership program. Let’s
    build and launch it by the end of the year.
    We were on the cusp of the always-frantic holiday retail
season. Jeff’s directive had all the earmarks of what corporate
denizens groaningly refer to as a “fire drill” or a “pet CEO
project”—an urgent, all-hands-on-deck order to deliver on
what seems like a rash decision. A pet project can blow the
company off the course of its longer-term strategy and create
even larger issues in its wake.
     Crisis-driven, out-of-the-blue initiatives are antithetical to
Amazon’s culture and Leadership Principles. This email from
Jeff superficially appeared to be such an initiative, but, as we
will show in this chapter, the history behind it and the
innovation it gave rise to were quintessentially Amazonian.
     Amazon Prime provided a compelling, game-changing
customer experience, and as a result it became the greatest
driver of growth for the retail business. But Prime’s journey
from idea to launch was an unusual one for Amazon. It did not
have a single-threaded leader or team until very late in the
process. There was no clear mission statement, and it did not
follow the then-nascent Working Backwards process until well
after the project was underway. Few Amazonians thought it
was a good idea even when it launched.
     But make no mistake about it: we still adhered to many of
the Amazonian principles, without which Amazon Prime
would not have launched. You’ll see that what really drove the
launch of Prime was our realization, after a monthslong deep
dive into the data, that our customers’ needs and the
capabilities of the fulfillment network we had spent the better
part of nine years and $600 million building were not aligned.
There were two options:
    1) Stay the course. The company is still growing. Let’s
       maximize our return on this multiyear investment we
       just made to build our fulfillment centers and tweak
       them to improve along the way. The next batch of
       quarterly results will reflect that we’re moving in the
       right direction.
    2) Two-day shipping and eventually one-day and same-
       day shipping will become the norm. Therefore, while
       what we’ve built is good, it is not good enough.
       Buoyed by our “unshakeable conviction that the long-
       term interests of shareowners are perfectly aligned
       with the interests of customers,” we should embark on
       this new journey right now.
     Option one would be the skills-forward path—that is,
using the existing skills and assets of the company to drive
business opportunities. Leaders at most companies would
likely be praised for choosing this path. The danger is that
while they stand atop this local optimum, someone else will
figure out how to scale a higher peak they couldn’t see at the
time due to risk aversion.
     In the case of Prime we chose the second path. This
realization caused us to take some bold steps that we knew
would likely be misunderstood by Wall Street investors and
analysts and take years to pay off. But if it worked, we’d earn
even more customer trust and set a new standard for e-
commerce. Jeff insisted on this path, which resulted in
Amazon Prime. Now, this may be one of those moments when
you’re thinking, “But we don’t have a Jeff.” The good news is
that you don’t need a Jeff to make this type of decision. You
only need to ruthlessly stick to the simple-to-understand (but
sometimes hard-to-follow) principles and process that insist on
customer obsession, encourage thinking long term, value
innovation, and stay connected to the details. None of us,
including Jeff, knew exactly what we would end up building;
it’s more like we stuck with the process and surrendered to
where it was taking us. Prime was a perfect example of the
multicausal, nonlinear way in which business initiatives both
major and minor got decided on and executed at Amazon.
Correspondingly, we can’t tell a linear story of how we came
up with Prime because there isn’t one. Instead, this chapter
will reflect that there were a lot of little tributaries that emptied
into the river of Prime.
     Back to that day in mid-October 2004: we got the answer
in the form of Jeff’s email directing us to get it done. In 11
weeks. During the busy holiday season.
    To say that Jeff’s proclamation came as a complete
surprise to many team members, particularly to those asked to
drop what they were doing and shift immediately to this new,
undefined program, would be an understatement. But they had
not been part of the conversation and formulation and
calculation that had been going on for several months. Jeff’s
decision to launch a free shipping program was bold, but
hardly sudden or rash. It was informed by the most basic
Amazonian drive: customer obsession.
     Amazon Prime—launched in February 2005—would
prove to be one of the best decisions Amazon ever made. Not
only did it secure Amazon’s survival, it became a key driver of
its explosive growth over the following decade. Customers
loved the ability to get things in mere days, and later hours,
after placing their order. And it would shift many of their
purchases away from offline, brick-and-mortar stores to online
shopping, ensuring also that Amazon was the primary
beneficiary of this shift.
                    The Need for Growth
To understand Amazon’s decision to place such a big bet on
Prime, you have to understand why we’d come to seek radical
ideas to fuel growth. Our third-quarter financial results
released on October 21, 2004, showed that sales had grown by
29 percent year over year. Free cash flow had increased by 76
percent. Many corporations would look at such growth figures
with envy, but a closer look at our financials at the time
revealed a more concerning picture.
     Throughout 2004, Amazon sales had continued to grow,
but the rate of growth decreased from the prior year, across all
lines of business. The output metric of sales revenue was not
growing as fast as we wanted. One example can be found
embedded in the Supplemental Net Sales Information section
of Amazon’s earnings results.1 Amazon’s largest product
segment at the time, the U.S. Media business, comprised retail
sales of books, music, and video, and had grown 12 percent
year over year. One year earlier, that same business had been
growing by 15 percent year over year. From 15 to 12 is a 20
percent drop in growth rate. Every other product segment was
experiencing the same slow decline—growing more slowly
than before.
     That trend of decelerating growth was not good news for a
relatively new company seeking to participate in a market so
incredibly large that it could be considered virtually unlimited.
In 2004, the U.S. retail industry was estimated to generate
more than $3.6 trillion of sales, of which less than 2 percent
was conducted online. Amazon’s growth rate was slowing, but
the shift from offline to online commerce was accelerating.
That meant one thing: if Amazon’s growth continued to
decelerate, the company would become a smaller and smaller
player in online commerce over time. We were determined to
find a way to reverse this trend.
     What would it take to get Amazon’s top-line growth back
on track? For a smaller business, a single action such as
introducing a new feature, running a promotion, adding a
product category, or expanding into a new territory might
suffice to deliver an immediate and noticeable impact on sales.
If we had been a small company, we might have cooked up a
storewide promotion and launched it with a marketing blitz
toward the end of the quarter. It might have made the financial
results look better (at least on the revenue side) for the quarter,
but such a one-off action wouldn’t have fixed the underlying
problems. We’d likely find ourselves right back in the same
place in the next quarter.
     A larger company might address its slowing-growth
problem in a more dramatic way, perhaps by making an
acquisition of another company, with the goal of creating a big
jump in sales (though maybe not profit). But for Amazon at
the time, there were few, if any, mergers or large acquisitions
that made sense. All the e-tailers we might have bought were
small, and their acquisition would not have moved our sales
needle appreciably. Buying an offline retailer made no sense—
although it might increase the number of customers, it would
burden us with the brick-and-mortar costs and inefficiencies
we wanted to avoid. Either of those actions carried the very
real risk of becoming a resource-consuming internal
distraction. We needed to make a move that would convince
more customers to shop online with us.
     One action we did briefly consider was creating a national
advertising campaign to build awareness for the Amazon
brand. In 2002, we ran a long-term advertising test in Portland
and Minneapolis. The campaign drove a bump-up in sales, but
we ultimately decided not to fully move forward with it. The
modest sales uplift was nowhere near enough to justify the $50
million per year we estimated we’d have to spend on an
effective national marketing campaign. The better investment
was to plow that money back into improving the customer
experience.
     How could we offer a shopping experience so compelling
that an ever-increasing number of customers would shift their
retail buying online, specifically to Amazon? Cue the well-
worn scenes of C-suite drama: Faced with financial trouble,
the CEO calls an emergency meeting of top brass. He leaps to
his feet, slams his fists on the table, and, with reddening face,
bellows, “We need to grow revenue faster! We need more
urgency about driving revenue! I want each group to develop
and launch an end-of-quarter marketing promotion, so we can
hit our numbers.”
     I have to admit that in the late 1990s, a few years before
the Prime discussions started, we had a few scenes that looked
a bit like that as we grappled with our growth concerns. We
tried a number of initiatives, including promotions (buy five
books, get one free!) and online nudges for customers to buy
across categories. Eventually we realized that such actions
wouldn’t work, because they took precious resources away
from improving the long-term customer experience.
    In the end, as always, we looked to our Leadership
Principles, two of which were particularly relevant at this
time:
    Customer Obsession. Leaders start with the customer
    and work backwards. They work vigorously to earn and
    keep customer trust. Although leaders pay attention to
    competitors, they obsess over customers.
    Deliver Results. Leaders focus on the key inputs for their
    business and deliver them with the right quality and in a
    timely fashion. Despite setbacks, they rise to the occasion
    and never settle.
     After all, retail customers don’t care about a company’s
revenue—they care about what they get back in return for
parting with their hard-earned dollars. Amazon customers
cared about three main things that we could deliver for them:

     Price. Is the price low enough?
     Selection. Does Amazon have a wide range of products
     —ideally everything?
     Convenience. Is the product in stock, and can I get it
     quickly? Can I easily find or discover the product?

Price, selection, and convenience were therefore the inputs for
our business. And we could control all three.
     Every week the senior leaders would review detailed
price, selection, and convenience metrics for each product line
and challenge the teams if they were falling short along any of
those dimensions. If a competitor beat us in the prior week on
pricing for our top-selling items, if we did not add enough new
products to the store, if we were out of stock or late on
deliveries, or if our website was responding too slowly, the
team would have to formulate and enact a plan to fix it. For
instance, in the fourth quarter of 2003, we added over 40,000
new gourmet food items, 60,000 new jewelry items, and
70,000 unique health and personal care items in the United
States. In Canada and France, we launched Marketplace, the
feature that allowed independent third-party retailers to sell
their products on our site. We also launched the Home and
Kitchen category in Japan. We were adding new items for sale
in every other product category as well.
     It was not enough. The answer to our stalling growth was
likely somewhere inside the triangle of price, selection, and
convenience. And that’s where we focused our patient but
persistent search for new ways to grow. Only over time did the
answer become clearer; we were driving up selection and
driving down price, but we still had to do something about
convenience. And that, most likely, would involve something
related to shipping.
         Free Shipping 1.0—Super Saver Shipping
Everyone in e-commerce knew customers were laser focused
on shipping costs. At Amazon, we knew this because we
collected and analyzed customer data in many ways. We
conducted surveys of new customers, existing customers,
people who had shopped online but had not yet done so on
Amazon, and people who had never shopped online at all. We
asked them for the top reasons why they didn’t place an online
order, and what would make them shop online more
frequently. In every survey, the top answers remained the
same: one of the biggest reasons people didn’t order online
was that they didn’t want to pay for shipping.
     The data we’d collected over the years through many tests
just reinforced this. Shipping promotions drove significantly
higher growth than any other type of promotion. The
perceived value of free shipping was higher than straight
discounting of product prices. Put another way, if the average
discount of a free shipping promotion was 10 percent, we’d
see significantly more demand lift (called elasticity) by
offering free shipping than by discounting product prices by
10 percent. It wasn’t even close. Free shipping drove sales. We
just had to figure out a sustainable way to offer free shipping.
     Relying on promotions over the long term can be a
slippery slope for any retailer, especially one-off promotions.
There is danger in training your customers to delay purchases
until the next deal comes along.
     By the time Jeff sent that October 2004 email calling us to
action on Prime, we had actually been working for two and a
half years to develop an array of everyday free shipping
initiatives that worked for customers, without harming the
financial health of the company. We had made some headway,
but the results were nowhere near what we needed to revitalize
our sales growth. Our first attempt was in early 2002, when we
launched the Free Super Saver Shipping program for
qualifying orders over $99. “Qualifying” meant products that
were sold by Amazon rather than by Marketplace sellers, and
also products that were not abnormally large or too heavy to
ship.
     Super Saver Shipping was built in much the same way
that Amazon Prime was later developed. Both projects started
with a decisive move, and an insanely compressed timeline,
leading up to a public launch. These timelines were part of the
DNA of a company whose very first employee’s job
description, as you may recall, made clear that the candidate
would have to accomplish large and complex tasks in “one-
third the time that most competent people think possible.”
     On a Friday evening in mid-November 2001, Sarah
Spillman, a product manager in the Marketing group (and
Colin’s future wife) was driving from Seattle to Portland for a
well-deserved long weekend after finishing a grueling period
completing that year’s holiday promotion plan. A few miles
outside Portland, a three-hour drive from Seattle, Sarah
received a call from David Risher, the SVP of Retail.
    “Hello?” Sarah asked.
    “Hi, Sarah. It’s David Risher.”
     “No it’s not!” Sarah assumed someone was playing a joke
on her and laughed into the phone. “Who is this really? I’m
just about to arrive in Portland.”
    “This really is David Risher.” David chuckled, then
moved to a casual but most definitely businesslike tone. “I’m
glad I was able to catch you. About that trip to Portland…”
     He told her that the company would be scrapping its
current planned holiday promotion, the one she’d worked so
hard to complete, and instead would offer something new: a
free shipping promotion for orders over $25. And oh, by the
way, could she turn around and come back to Seattle to get
started?
     They met the following morning—Saturday—to go over
the details. She and her team spent most of their waking hours
over the following two weeks reworking the holiday
promotion with an offer of free shipping for orders over $25.
Because Amazon had never done this kind of promotion, it
required substantial software and site design changes.
Likewise, the marketing messages—both on the website and in
a mass email campaign sent to virtually every Amazon
customer—had to be crafted and coordinated to launch
simultaneously. Despite the last-minute time crunch, the
promotion launched on time—and was such a hit with
customers that we decided to turn it into a permanent program
after the holidays. We formally launched Super Saver
Shipping on January 22, 2002, albeit with a higher minimum
order of $99. (In order to maximize attention to the new
product, Jeff announced it in the same press release as the
quarterly earnings results, which you’ll see is a recurring
pattern.)
      Customers responded with such enthusiasm that in the
first several months of 2002, the order threshold to qualify for
Super Saver Shipping was lowered to $49, then dropped to
$25 on qualifying orders. As predicted, customers who took
advantage of Super Saver Shipping bought more, driving up
their gross order totals.
     Super Saver Shipping was meant to appeal to price-
sensitive customers. In January 2005, the standard shipping
charge for an order containing books was $3.00 per shipment
plus $0.99 per item. If you wanted faster delivery, you could
opt for two-day shipping, which cost $7.49 per shipment plus
$1.99 per item, or one-day shipping, which cost $12.49 per
shipment plus $2.99 per item. Shipping fees on a typical two-
book order, then, could range from $4.98 for standard to
$18.47 for one-day.2 The higher price reflected our cost of
expedited shipping, which usually required that the package
make some of its journey aboard an airplane rather than a
truck. Not surprisingly, most customers chose standard
shipping. These shipping charges are cringeworthy by today’s
standards, but were actually quite competitive at the time.
     With Super Saver Shipping, the order would leave the
fulfillment center within three to five days of being placed,
and would be carried to its destination by a ground delivery
service. This enabled Amazon to keep its costs low, since no
flights were involved. It also made it possible for Amazon to
group items together—ones that might have been ordered
separately or were not all immediately available from a single
fulfillment center—which reduced the total number of
packages shipped. So Super Saver Shipping reduced our costs
and lowered prices for the customer. The program, which
seems laughably primitive today, offered a valuable insight
into what our customers wanted. They were delighted to be
given a free shipping option, even if the trade-off was “slow
and free” or “fast and expensive.” And we were becoming
reasonably competent at affordably and reliably delivering this
customer experience. Super Saver Shipping had set a new
standard. But it would not last. Customer expectations are not
static. They rise over time, which means you cannot rest on
your laurels.
                     There Was a Catch
Two years after launch, in 2004, Super Saver Shipping
appeared to be a big success. Customers were ordering more
frequently each year and the average number of items per
order increased. Since the $25 order threshold to qualify for
free shipping was higher than the average price of a single
item, customers bought more than one item just to get the free
delivery—our metrics confirmed that there was an increase in
the number of items per order—an obvious benefit for
Amazon. And as the average order size increased, there was
more product profit available to offset the cost of free
shipping.
     Super Saver Shipping also worked nicely with the
fulfillment and delivery network, the supply chain, that we had
built. At the end of 2004, Amazon had roughly 4.4 million
square feet of fulfillment center space across eight U.S.
facilities located in Kentucky, Pennsylvania, Kansas, Nevada,
North Dakota, and Delaware. We had established operations in
those locations in part because they were close to the hubs of
third-party delivery services such as the U.S. Postal Service,
FedEx, and UPS.
     Even though Super Saver Shipping made sense for
Amazon’s supply chain and was a popular feature, we realized
that it could not be the driver of significant growth for the
retail business. First, this was because many of our heaviest
buyers needed the fastest possible delivery—they were not
willing to wait three to five days for an item to ship. Second,
some of our price-sensitive customers were not willing to up
their order to $25 just to qualify for Super Saver Shipping. It
didn’t make sense to them to spend more on goods just to pay
less on shipping. As a result, they would do what 98 percent of
other consumers did at the time—shop at a brick-and-mortar
store. So, while Super Saver Shipping was popular, it did not
appeal to large segments of our customer base. We realized
that we needed something better, some kind of friction-free
program that would appeal to our entire customer base,
regardless of their time or price sensitivity.
     One way in which we tracked our shipping performance
was with a metric called “Click to Deliver.” This was the total
amount of time from the moment the customer placed an order
(click) to the moment the package arrived at its final
destination (deliver). We divided the process into two
segments. The first—the click-to-ship time—was the amount
of time required for Amazon to process the order, package it,
and hand it over to a third-party delivery service. The second
segment—the ship-to-deliver—was the time between the
handover and the customer receiving their package.
     Click-to-ship was the part of the process that we could
control, and we constantly looked for ways to shorten it. If we
could reduce the time it took to process and fulfill an order, we
could push the order cut-off time to later in the day—such as,
“orders placed by 7 p.m. will ship the same day”—which was
an important customer benefit. But no matter how much we
improved click-to-ship time, we did not control the ship-to-
deliver segment of the process, which meant that customers
had to bear the burden of the cost/speed trade-off. It became
clear that, if we were to reduce the total delivery time, we
would have to gain more control of the ship-to-deliver metric,
which was largely determined by two things: the distance
between the fulfillment center and the customer delivery
location, and the shipment method. To improve total delivery
time, we would need to make big changes to our supply chain.
Our current fulfillment network had been built to optimize for
nearby access to our third-party shippers so we could reliably
and cheaply ship products to customers in three to five days.
This logistics topology had been convenient for Amazon, but
not for the customers who wanted products delivered fast and
free. To optimize the ship-to-deliver segment, we would need
many more fulfillment centers, and they would have to be
located so that free, one-to-two-day delivery was both possible
and cost effective. That meant a much greater presence near
urban areas. Now that customers had gotten a taste of free
shipping, they no longer wanted to be forced to choose
between “slow and free” and “fast and expensive.” Jeff
exhibits discomfort when presented with an either/or
proposition in which both results are mediocre. Viewed
through the Customer Obsession and Insist on the Highest
Standards leadership principles, the only answer to the
question, “Which would you rather have, ‘slow and free’ or
‘fast and expensive’?” is “fast and free.” So the catch was that
“fast and free” was where Amazon needed to go next, but our
fulfillment capabilities were not up to the task.
     The question was how to accomplish such a major shift. If
we offered fast-and-free delivery with our current supply chain
structure, the cost to Amazon would be extremely high. But it
would take years to build out the new fulfillment network
required to reduce delivery time affordably.
                      Loyalty Programs
So, we brainstormed solutions to the fundamental shipping
problem. Our marketing, retail, and finance teams set three
criteria that any new marketing initiative would have to meet
to go forward:

     1. It had to be affordable (an eye-catching but financially
        unsustainable approach was out of the question).
     2. It had to drive the right customer behavior (that is,
        nudge customers to buy more from Amazon).
     3. It had to be a better use of funds than the obvious
        alternative, which was to invest those same funds into
        actions that would improve the customer experience,
        such as lowering prices even further or improving our
        in-stock rate.

     Crafting an affordable program that we felt would lead
customers to buy more—rather than continuing on with our
tried-and-true method of funneling cost savings back into
lower prices—seemed difficult, if not impossible, at the time,
especially given the constraints of our fulfillment and delivery
supply chain.
     One promising approach, however, was to create some
kind of loyalty program. In 2000, Amazon had no large-scale
loyalty program, which was unusual for an e-commerce
company of its size. Jeff asked David Risher, Alan Brown
(head of Marketing), and Jason Child (Finance) to create a
loyalty program that would drive durable growth. The
marketing and retail teams analyzed several variations of
loyalty programs, including free standard shipping for orders
over $25 (which was essentially Super Saver Shipping but
without the three-to-five-day click-to-ship time), free shipping
on all preorders (that is, an order placed before the item’s
official first ship date), paying an annual fee for free standard
shipping, or free two-day shipping. We also considered an
alternate form of loyalty program that would include different
combinations of purchases of our “owned inventory” (items
we stocked in our fulfillment centers) and those of third-party
items, where we would have to subsidize shipping costs or
require third-party sellers to do so. We even evaluated rebates
and points-based programs similar to the airlines’, but there’s
an important difference between airlines and retailers. Once a
plane takes off, its empty seats have no value. Therefore,
airlines, in exchange for loyalty, can give away marginal
inventory that would otherwise go unsold. Whereas in retail,
giving away either product or shipping fees always has a cost.
None of the ideas made it very far because they could not meet
the three essential criteria.
      The proposals were not limited to the marketing and retail
teams. An idea similar to Prime occurred to a principal
software engineer named Charlie Ward as he described a
problem at a software team meeting. Charlie had spent the
better part of a year trying to untangle our ordering software
into separate distributed components. Two of these
components were the shipping software and the promotions
software, which is where the Super Saver Shipping logic
resided. Charlie said that for Super Saver Shipping orders we
had invented one of the most complicated and bug-ridden
ways to calculate zero. The shipping software calculated the
shipping charges, and then the promotions software dutifully
tried to unwind these charges until they netted to zero. He said
there had to be a better way. After Charlie described the
problem, another software team reported on its work building
a subscription platform for an Amazon DVD rental business
that would soon launch. Charlie was intrigued. He asked,
“Why couldn’t we have customers pay an annual subscription
fee that would include free shipping for a year? That would be
a big win for customers. And we could stop spending so much
effort reconciling fees.” Kim Rachmeler, who ran the customer
service department at the time, liked the idea. “You may have
something there, Charlie,” she said. “Why don’t you run with
it.”3
    Charlie talked with colleagues, refined the idea, wrote up
a one-page narrative, and submitted it. He then left for a well-
deserved vacation in Italy.
    Though it’s unclear whether Jeff knew about Charlie’s
idea before sending out his directive to launch a free shipping
program in October, it doesn’t really matter—the story is
noteworthy for a couple of reasons. First, customer-focused
ideas come from all areas within Amazon. Many companies
have the “business people” tell the “technical people” what to
build. There’s little discussion back and forth, and the teams
stay in their own lanes. Amazon is not like this at all. It’s
everyone’s job to obsess over customers and think of inventive
ways to delight them.
     A second noteworthy aspect of the story is that when
Charlie returned from vacation and found out we had decided
to build something akin to his idea, he joined the team charged
with making Prime a reality, and played a vital role on it. Once
Amazon Prime launched, Charlie became its leader for
technical systems, customer experience, and financial
performance.
     In other words, Charlie was, in Amazonian terms, a
“strong general athlete” (SGA). These customer-obsessed,
inventive, long-term thinkers take pride in operational
excellence and embody the Amazon Leadership Principles.
Amazon often puts SGAs like Charlie into leadership positions
and gives them the tools to become subject matter experts.
Kim Rachmeler too was an SGA. She held many leadership
roles. In addition to running customer service, she led
Amazon’s Supply Chain Systems and the Personalization
department. She was also a member of the S-Team.
     Despite the many free shipping ideas circulating around
the company, none of the proposals that were initially put
forward met all three criteria we had established for the
shipping solution. We worried that the membership programs
that involved an annual fee for free standard shipping or for
free two-day shipping would encourage customers to purchase
fewer items per order. This would not generate enough money
to cover shipping costs, which meant it would not be
sustainable. Unsustainable growth at any cost was definitely
not the customer behavior we were after. Review meetings
often ended when someone asked, “Wouldn’t the money be
better spent on lowering prices and improving In Stock for
customers?” We knew these actions were effective at
increasing customer sales, but we weren’t so sure that a
subscription program would do the same.
     Another concern that caused a big debate was how heavy
buyers would respond to a loyalty program. Would it
encourage them to place additional orders? Or would they
have placed the same orders even if they had to pay for
shipping? The purpose of this program was to drive
incremental buying behavior, not for Amazon to pick up the
shipping tab as a way of saying thanks to our big customers.
     As we considered proposals, there were a number of
sound arguments put forward for why we should not embark
on a free shipping program. A big one was that it would be too
expensive, largely because it would require the massive
retooling of our supply chain. We couldn’t even accurately
estimate the cost, because our models could not really predict
how customers would react, so we were relying more on
judgment and educated guesses than on data. Even if our
assumptions were correct, the program would take years to
pay off; not a single person in the leadership team other than
Jeff was pushing for Prime to launch in 2004; it was the
holiday season, which meant we were already really busy!
This very nearly became one of those scenarios when a
company takes the seductive but ultimately wrong path of
staying the course, making a serious error of omission as a
result.
     The “institutional no” is a big reason why Amazon could
have made an error of omission in this case. Jeff and other
Amazon leaders often talk about the “institutional no” and its
counterpart, the “institutional yes.” The institutional no refers
to the tendency for well-meaning people within large
organizations to say no to new ideas. The errors caused by the
institutional no are typically errors of omission, that is,
something a company doesn’t do versus something it does.
Staying the current course offers managers comfort and
certainty—even if the price of that short-term certainty is
instability and value destruction later on.
     Moreover, the errors of omission caused by the
institutional no can be notoriously tricky to spot. Most
businesses don’t have the tools to evaluate the cost of not
doing something. And when the cost is high, they only realize
when it’s too late to change. The institutional no can infiltrate
all levels of the organization. It’s what causes a board of
directors to say no to a big change of strategy (think Nokia and
Microsoft missing the turn on smartphones). It’s what drives
frontline managers to keep their top performers working on a
current project and say no to their involvement in high-risk
experiments that could fail but could also pay off handsomely
later—especially if that payoff is likely to be after the manager
has moved on to another role.
     Jeff would likely have been making just such an error of
omission if his October 2004 email had read, “Let’s wait to
introduce free shipping and just focus on making this 2004
holiday season our best ever!” If he had stopped pressing the
teams for more free shipping ideas, there would no doubt have
been a sigh of relief. We would have looked at each other and
said thank goodness we made the right call to pause.
     Instead of marking a turning point in Amazon’s history,
that mid-October day might have been remarkable in another
way. It might have been the moment we made a disastrous
mistake, even if we didn’t realize it until years later.
                     Walking the Store
Most retail CEOs walk the store when they have a chance, and
Jeff is no exception. The typical CEO will pay a visit to a
retail outlet when they’re in the area—often unannounced, or
even incognito—to do a bit of browsing and observe what’s
going on. An online retail CEO can walk the store anytime, of
course, and Jeff’s preferred walking-the-store time was early
Saturday and Sunday mornings. It was not unusual for me to
wake up at 7 a.m. on a weekend, check my email, and read
five or six messages from Jeff to the relevant teams on issues
he had found while walking the store that morning.
     The first discussions that would shape Amazon Prime
actually began in the spring of 2004, several months before
Jeff’s notable October email. The process started with a
scattering of email exchanges between Jeff and a handful of
Amazon executives. The participants usually included Greg
Greeley (a finance and retail VP who would eventually own
and operate the Amazon Prime program), Tom Szkutak
(CFO), Diego Piacentini (SVP of Worldwide Retail), Jeff
Wilke (then SVP of Worldwide Operations), and me (Colin).
    As we discussed in chapter six, price, selection, and
convenience are three key elements of Amazon’s flywheel.
And shipping is a large component of convenience. The
Amazon Deliver Results leadership principle states, “Leaders
focus on the key inputs for their business and deliver them
with the right quality and in a timely fashion. Despite
setbacks, they rise to the occasion and never settle.” Shipping
speed is a key input metric for Amazon. So, if you are
customer obsessed, then you’re also obsessed with measuring
and improving the shipping experience for customers. Jeff was
no exception here, and therefore it was no surprise that
shipping was the main focus of these email exchanges.
    One spring 2004 walking-the-store email that Jeff wrote
ended up making a direct contribution to the Prime
conversation, though we didn’t know it at the time. It
addressed an issue that was seemingly nontechnical in nature:
making too much profit on an item. Jeff browsed our
electronics and jewelry stores. The prices for flat-screen TVs
and precious jewelry ran into the hundreds and sometimes
thousands of dollars. We had little pricing flexibility on many
of these items due to supplier relationships.
     Since we couldn’t offer lower prices, Jeff felt we should
do the next best thing: offer free next-day shipping. We made
quite a bit of gross profit from those items, compared to the
gross profit from a $15 book or video, so we could afford to
offer free expedited shipping for the same all-in price.
     Jeff sent an email to the relevant category leaders and S-
Team members with his suggestion to offer free shipping on
selected items. When he sent a team an idea, it did not need to
be implemented, but it definitely needed to be evaluated and
that evaluation needed to be communicated back to him. As
Jeff Holden, a former SVP and S-Team member, once told
Jeff, “You have enough ideas to crush the company.” (Jeff
responded with his distinctive laugh.)
     As counterintuitive as it may sound that a company would
deliberately choose to cut into its margins, it made sense for
Amazon. We had to figure out how to thrive in a world where
we made a modest amount of money on each item we shipped.
So it was no great surprise that the category managers
responded to Jeff’s email by saying that they had in fact
already tried to implement this feature. The challenge was that
adding this functionality would require significant resources
from several software teams who already had more work than
they could handle. As discussed in chapter three, we had
grown so fast over the years that our software was a tangled
mess, especially the promotions and shipping software. We
hadn’t yet removed the technical dependencies among most of
our key systems. To make even a simple change was risky and
expensive because it required meticulous design and testing to
make sure things worked properly after the change was
completed. That meant any proposed software change had to
be justified by its ability to deliver a large payback. They said
they’d take another look at it.
     After a few weeks, I followed up on Jeff’s suggestion.
The teams had been thinking about it, but determined that it
was a complex cross-functional project and enabling free
shipping for a limited number of high-priced electronics and
jewelry items would not deliver a sufficient payback. There
were plans in the works that would have made promotions of
that type easier to implement, but the required changes to the
software would take more than a year to complete.
     But the larger problem remained unsolved. The idea of
free shipping on selected items was tabled that summer, but
our growth rates were still decelerating, and the emails from
Jeff kept coming. Every few weeks, he’d start a thread about
shipping, posing questions such as, “What about an annual
membership program where we charge $X and offer free
standard shipping?” Or, “Can we ship all jewelry items for
free?” Or, “How about all orders over $X ship immediately for
free (versus the three-to-five-day delay for Super Saver
Shipping)?”
     If the team had already considered the idea or had a ready
answer, they would respond immediately. If not, Jeff’s
question would trigger a group of financial analysts, category
managers, and operations analysts to model the idea, project
its expected cost, identify its strengths, weaknesses, and risks,
and finally make a recommendation. Greg Greeley was the
point person in charge of responding. At one point he had over
half a dozen different scenarios to analyze. In early October,
Jeff said he wanted to see a comparison of all these
alternatives by the end of the month. A few days later, in the
middle of the month, Jeff sent the house-on-fire email and said
rather than presenting the set of ideas in three weeks, we
should select the best one and launch the program by the end
of the year. I think at some point he had decided that it wasn’t
the idea that was flawed, but the decision-making process, a
process encumbered by institutional risk-aversion. The
“October surprise” email arose out of his realization that you
simply could not prove a priori that free shipping would work.
You just had to try it.
                           It’s Time
At this point in mid-October, the thought experiments
transitioned to a “tangible project,” albeit one with no
dedicated resources and no definition other than “launch a
shipping membership program by the end of the year.” After
much back and forth, by the second half of November, there
was general consensus that the best option was a paid yearly
membership that would offer free two-day shipping. Now we
needed to find a team to build it. What came next was a clear
expression of another one of Amazon’s Leadership Principles
in action, Have Backbone; Disagree and Commit: “Leaders are
obligated to respectfully challenge decisions when they
disagree, even when doing so is uncomfortable or exhausting.
Leaders have conviction and are tenacious. They do not
compromise for the sake of social cohesion. Once a decision is
determined, they commit wholly.”
     As we have described, numerous leaders had disagreed
with Jeff on this topic. But the time for debate on whether and
when we should launch free shipping was over. It was now
time to act on the second half of “disagree and commit.”
Everybody sprang into action. Jeff Holden was tasked with
marshaling whatever resources were necessary to build and
launch by the Q4 2004 earnings call scheduled for the end of
January. We were going to do it well and do it quickly. Jeff
scheduled a meeting for Friday, December 3, to meet with the
implementation team leads, including Vijay Ravindran and
Dorothy Nichols. The only problem is that Amazon started
experiencing technical issues with the site and there was a
significant outage. Vijay took the unusual but correct move to
cancel the meeting and reschedule for another time. Jeff took it
in stride and said, how about tomorrow morning at my house?
That’s when Jeff, Jeff Holden, Vijay, and Dorothy met to go
over what would become Amazon Prime. Jeff said he wanted
to build a moat around our best customers. Prime would be a
premium experience for convenience-oriented customers. Jeff
H., Vijay, and Dorothy could recruit whoever they needed to
the team, but it had to launch concurrently with the next
earnings call.
     The teams involved were in a flat-out sprint with long
hours for the duration of the project, which internally was
called Futurama. It was only at this point in the process that
the Futurama PR/FAQ was belatedly written and revised.
While completing the project required heroic efforts from
several dozen team members (including Charlie Ward, recently
returned from his vacation), the implementation story is
outside the scope of this book and has been covered in the
press. The earnings call was even bumped out to February 2,
2005, to accommodate the project launch.
     It’s also worth pointing out that other teams had created
building blocks for other purposes that could be deployed for
developing Prime—and without which we would not have
been able to meet the aggressive schedule. Jeff was aware of
the details that would give us a head start. One building block
that we took advantage of was the Fast Track program. Jeff
had seen customers’ positive reaction to Amazon’s newly
acquired capabilities with Fast Track and, as usual, he wanted
to double down the bet, which in this case meant using it for
Prime. Fast Track had been developed to allow the fulfillment
system to make more precise estimates about shipping time—
that is, we went from “Usually ships within 24 hours” to “This
item will ship tonight if you order within 1 hour and 32
minutes.” Fast Track took two years to complete, and had
required a massive amount of software development as well as
physical modifications to the fulfillment centers. So we didn’t
have to reinvent the wheel when it came to the accuracy and
success rates of the shipping promises. A second building
block, as noted, was the subscription platform for an upcoming
DVD rental launch. There would have been no Amazon Prime
anytime remotely near February 2005 without these two
building blocks.
    Indeed, on February 2, 2005, less than four months after
the notorious October email from Jeff, Amazon Prime
launched. The truth is, it was not an overnight success as the
Kindle had been. The first customers who joined were the
heavy buyers who already spent more than $79/year on
expedited shipping. So we were really just subsidizing their
existing habits. Though we had created a game-changing
online shopping experience, shifting consumer behavior takes
time. In the months and years since, it is hard to overestimate
the extent to which Prime finally created a viable alternative
for shoppers around the world. Prime transformed Amazon
from a fairly successful company in the e-commerce space to a
top player in the retail space. And Prime changed the way
people think about shopping online—and shopping, period. As
one journalist wrote, “Amazon single-handedly—and
permanently—raised the bar for convenience in online
shopping. That, in turn, forever changed the types of products
shoppers were willing to buy online. Need a last-minute gift or
nearing the end of a pack of diapers? Amazon was now an
alternative to the immediacy of brick-and-mortar stores.”4
    As Jeff announced to shareholders in 2018, “13 years
post-launch, we have exceeded 100 million paid Prime
members globally.”5
     Amazon Prime is a great example of the tremendous value
you can unlock by ruthlessly applying the principles of
customer obsession and long-term thinking to a problem—in
this case, increasing revenue growth. To do so, we had to
accept the fact that the current logistics infrastructure we had
painstakingly built over the years, though doing reasonably
well at the time, wouldn’t cut it in the long run. We had to
change the expected payback period of our decision from the
next quarter or two to five or even seven years ahead. Given
that focus on the customer experience and our willingness to
think long term, doing Amazon Prime made perfect sense. We
were able to give customers what they had long wanted while
generating free cash flow for Amazon that was dramatically
higher than if we had tried to squeeze as much as possible
from the status quo.
9
Prime Video
    A disastrous Unboxing. The Howard Hughes model. The problem of digital
    rights management. Seeking a path to the living room. Netflix changes the
    game. Prime Instant Video as an Amazon Prime benefit. The development of
    Amazon Studios.




It was August 2006. The staff of Amazon’s Seattle
headquarters had assembled in the 5th Avenue Theater for the
quarterly All Hands Meeting. The day would be the trial run
for a project that I (Bill) had been working on furiously for the
past 12 months. As Roy Price and Ethan Evans, co-leaders of
the Amazon digital video business, came onstage to introduce
everyone to Amazon’s first digital movie and TV show
service, Amazon Unbox, I sat nervously with my team and
about two thousand other Amazonians.
    We were excited to have reached the finish line on Unbox.
The public launch was just a week away.
     Roy and Ethan explained to the audience how Unbox
would work. The customer would go online and browse
through tens of thousands of movie and TV show titles.
They’d buy or rent whatever they wanted to watch. Download
it to their PC. Hit play. Sit down and enjoy the show. As
simple as that.
     After the introduction, it was time for the dramatic reveal
on the big screen. Ethan approached the laptop. We held our
breath. He clicked play. The screen lit up and the video started
playing … upside down. The crowd emitted a sound that was
part nervous laughter and part howl of pain.
    That disastrous live demo was a harbinger of what was to
come. In just a few weeks, we would be receiving feedback
from customers that mirrored that audience reaction: empathy,
groans, pain, bewilderment. I had hoped and expected the
launch of Unbox to be one of the greatest achievements of my
Amazon career. Instead, it turned out to be my single biggest
failure.
     This is the story of how we began by getting something
terribly wrong, but learned from our mistakes and, in the end,
got it fantastically right.



Cut to February 22, 2011: Amazon Prime users who visited
the site discovered a new benefit of membership. We (Bill and
team) had launched Prime Instant Video that morning.1 It
offered streaming of five thousand movies and TV shows as
part of the Amazon Prime membership, at no extra charge.
Until that moment, the Amazon Prime brand had meant one
thing to subscribers: fast, free shipping. Millions of customers
had subscribed. Tens of millions of customers knew what
Prime stood for. But now Amazon Prime meant streaming
video too?
     To us, the vision was clear: to add more benefits that had
broad, global appeal in order to make Prime earth’s most
compelling and irresistible value for customers. As Jeff would
say in his 2016 shareholder letter, “We want Prime to be such
a good value, you’d be irresponsible to not be a member.” Five
thousand titles was just the beginning. In the coming months
and years we planned to add thousands of must-see movies
and TV series to make watching Prime Video a daily habit.
Today, Amazon Prime Video is an integral component of
Prime, with more than 100 million subscribers globally, and
tens of thousands of titles available for streaming. Among
those titles are shows and movies such as Transparent, The
Marvelous Mrs. Maisel, Mozart in the Jungle, and Manchester
by the Sea—winners of prestigious awards, including Golden
Globes and Emmys.
     Once again, getting to this point involved significant
hurdles, among them making the right investments in
streaming technology and applications for mobile and TV
devices, overcoming resistance from reluctant device
manufacturers, creating our own line of successful devices,
and making the right eight- and nine-figure investments in
movies and TV shows. We achieved this by combining a long-
term perspective with continuous improvement in our digital
video customer experience over more than ten years.
     The journey to that 2011 launch took more than six years
of work and a string of missteps, challenges, and, yes, outright
failures. The process began in early to mid-2004, even before
Prime, when we embarked on Amazon’s first video initiative,
which had a brand name that has been long since forgotten by
Amazon customers and recalls bad memories for those of us
who built it: Amazon Unbox.
     Unbox was Amazon’s first digital video service. Jeff
Bezos and I landed on that name after countless brainstorming
sessions. The “Un” part was meant to convey that it was
counter to or unlike the way people watched movies and TV
shows in those days. The problem was the name was neither
fish nor fowl. It wasn’t quite an “empty vessel” name, like
Hulu, that didn’t mean anything but sounded distinctive and
memorable; nor was it a name whose meaning was instantly
understandable, like Netflix.
     The Unbox customer experience was a failure. My team
and I were new at this—we hadn’t launched a digital media
service before. Also, we had no track record at setting high
standards when developing a new customer experience.
Further, we were limited by technical constraints (internet
bandwidth, hardware, software), by what movies and TV
shows the studios were willing to offer, by how customers
would be allowed to watch them and at what prices. Finally,
Amazon didn’t have a hardware and software ecosystem that
would enable us to control the end-to-end customer experience
—Apple was way ahead of us on this and jumped out to a big
lead in 2007, outselling us by more than ten times.
 Unbox: A Misstep on the Long and Winding Road to the
                     Living Room
It’s hard to remember what it was like to watch a movie before
streaming. In those days, people who wanted to watch movies
at home basically had two alternatives: drive to the video store
(remember those?) and rent a movie or receive a red envelope
in the mail from Netflix. We were offering one of the first
services that would enable customers to buy movies and TV
shows online and download them to their computer. We
believed that we were creating a service that would instigate a
new and valuable customer experience. After all, how great
would it be to have access to a huge selection of popular
movies and television shows and be able to download them to
your computer or laptop so you could watch them at home or
on the go, with complete control over when and how you
watched them, and to have access to them forever?
     Netflix DVD service was growing fast at the time, but we
made a bet that downloading would eventually be more
attractive to the customer than DVD rental, and it would
certainly be a whole lot better than the Blockbuster brick-and-
mortar model. Blockbuster was then at its peak, but the
customer experience they offered was, in our view, pretty
much the pits. Although Blockbuster introduced a DVD online
subscription service in 2006, the typical customer throughout
the United States, and indeed all over the world, still went
through the dismal Friday-evening drill. They’d leave work
and schlep to their local Blockbuster store in hopes of finding
a good movie to watch that evening. The good titles and the
latest releases were always gone, so they’d settle for
something the whole family could at least tolerate. Often, they
returned the title late and had to pay dreaded late fees that
could double or triple the cost of a rental.
    We thought Unbox could change all that.
     Let me explain how our service worked, or, I should say,
sort of worked. First, you would go to the Amazon website to
get the Amazon Unbox application, download it, and install it
on your PC. I say PC because if you were a Mac user, you
were out of luck—Unbox only ran on Windows machines, and
only on Windows machines less than three years old. And
even if you had a PC, the installation process was frustratingly
slow. However, if you got the app installed, you could then go
on the Amazon website and select a movie for download.
    That was where Unbox ran into more trouble.
     In 2005, because streaming high-quality video was not yet
possible, you had to download the movie to your hard drive
before you could start watching. How long did that take? Well,
a clever customer would take their personal laptop to the office
where they would have access to what was then considered a
“high-speed” network. Even with that, it would take an hour or
two to download a two-hour movie. For those who forgot to
do an office download, or didn’t have access to a high-speed
network, the process would take considerably longer. With a
DSL connection, the standard of the day, it could take as long
as four hours to get the job done.
    We knew that could in no way be considered an appealing
customer experience, so we spent a lot of time coming up with
potential solutions.
     One idea was to create a dedicated DVD burner that the
customer would install at home. When they purchased the
movie, it would automatically start downloading to the burner,
and the DVD would pop out as soon as it was done, ready to
watch on your TV. This would solve one Unbox problem—
namely, if you downloaded the movie onto your computer,
there was no way to transfer it to your TV, unless you were
geeky enough to be able to kludge a connection.
     We abandoned the burner approach and developed a
feature called RemoteLoad. It enabled you to browse the
Amazon site on any computer—it didn’t have to be the one
you were going to watch it on—purchase a title, and initiate
the download so the movie would be available for viewing on
your computer of choice whenever you were ready. The
shortcoming was, if you wanted to watch the movie on, say,
your home PC, that PC had to be powered up, the Unbox app
had to be open, and the machine had to be connected to the
internet. Very few customers would take the trouble to do all
that.
     We also wanted to include one other innovative feature—
the capability for the customer to download the movie or TV
show multiple times to different devices at no additional
charge. On Apple’s iTunes music app, the customer would
download songs to their computer. They could listen on their
Mac, but they had to “sideload” songs to their iPod, using a
cable. If you lost a song, or your entire music library, from the
computer, you were out of luck. You might have spent
hundreds of dollars building up your music collection only to
see it vanish thanks to a faulty hard drive, an accidental
deletion, or some other mishap.
     We knew from our research that this drove customers
crazy, but the solution was not a technical one, because the
problem was about rights. The studios earned 70 percent of the
revenue on each purchase and considered every download to
be a new sale. They did not think of themselves as being in the
customer experience business—they simply wanted to extract
as many royalty payments as they could from their distributors
(e.g., Apple and Amazon) and their distributors’ customers.
     In an effort to rectify the problem, we entered into
negotiations with the movie studios. This took time and was
not a great deal of fun, but we succeeded. We were proud to
launch Unbox with a “Whispernet-like” feature that no other
service offered: your personal library of videos—called “your
video library” (internally we called it YVL, pronounced
“whyvull”)—stored on the Amazon site, that you could
download multiple times onto multiple devices, at no
additional fee. That’s standard today, but it was a breakthrough
at the time.
    This kind of thinking and work on behalf of the customer
would pay off for Amazon in the long term, but in the short
term, this feature wasn’t significant enough to help Unbox
overcome its shortcomings.
     As we soon found out, there were too many other
customer experience problems for Unbox to succeed. Not only
was the download ridiculously slow, but the Microsoft
Windows Media digital rights management software that we
relied on was so buggy that a large percentage of customers
couldn’t play the videos at all. Our commitment to deliver a
great viewing experience, with DVD-quality picture and
sound, made the download slower and more likely to fail.
    As it turned out, download speed was much more
important to customers than image quality. Remember that in
December 2005, YouTube had burst onto the scene. It offered
user-generated content, no popular movies or TV shows. The
video was low-resolution and played in a small frame on your
PC. Consumers were not bothered by the low-quality video,
and YouTube began to attract tens of millions of viewers.
Weeks after our launch, Apple launched the capability to
watch movies and shows on an iPod screen, even tinier than
the YouTube frame. Customers ate that up, too. Fast. Easy.
iPod compatible. Everything that Unbox was not.
    A few days after launch Jeff called Steve Kessel, me, and
Neil Roseman into his office. He was disappointed that we
hadn’t set high enough standards for the quality of the
customer experience, and he was frustrated that we had let our
customers down.
     In retrospect, it is easy to see the mistakes. We had rushed
Unbox out the door before it was ready. In the weeks leading
up to launch, rumors had been swirling around Hollywood and
in the press that Apple was close to launching a digital video
service. We didn’t want to come in second to Apple so we
were in a frenzy to ship Unbox and ship it fast. This was
directly antithetical to the notion of focusing on the customer,
not the competitor. We had conducted an internal employee-
only beta test, but we failed to use the results as an opportunity
to slow down, carefully review the customer feedback, and
take the time needed to make real changes to improve the
quality of the customer experience. We were just focused on
shipping. We had prioritized speed, press coverage, and
competitor obsession over the customer experience. We had
been decidedly un-Amazonian.
     This is my self-assessment that I wrote in my performance
review that year:
    Overall, my performance was dreadful in 2006. In Unbox,
    our launch was poorly received, partly due to DRM
    [digital rights management] and licensing issues that
    restrict content usage, and selection, partly due to bad
    product choices we made for consumers (erring on the
    side of quality over download speed) and partly due to
    engineering defects. In any case, I didn’t manage these
    issues appropriately and the result was a weak launch with
    weak consumer response and negative press reaction.
        Net my performance versus goals can be summarized
    by a poor execution percentage in terms of projects
    completed and the main project that is complete (Unbox
    Video) is not a compelling customer experience (yet) and
    the rate of sales is pitiful. I think a grade of ‘D’ for my
    performance vs. goals would be generous.
     Painful to read! At least I can say it embodied the
“vocally self-critical” aspect of the Earn Trust leadership
principle. In any other company, I probably would have been
fired. Fortunately for me, Amazon’s commitment to long-term
thinking includes its investment in people. They understand
that when you innovate and build new things, you will
frequently fail. If you fire the person, you lose the benefit of
the learning that came along with that experience. Jeff would
say something like this to a leader who had just laid an egg:
“Why would I fire you now? I just made a million-dollar
investment in you. Now you have an obligation to make that
investment pay off. Figure out and clearly document where
you went wrong. Share what you have learned with other
leaders throughout the company. Be sure you don’t make the
same mistake again, and help others avoid making it the first
time.”
    I learned a lot from what went wrong with the launch of
Unbox, and I was able to share my knowledge with others at
Amazon. That knowledge stayed with me and has informed
how I think about every new product and feature I have been
involved with in the years since that brutal self-assessment.
     Not long after the Unbox launch, my boss, Steve Kessel,
took me aside. He told me that he had had an interesting
meeting with Jeff, who had made it very clear that setting and
insisting on high standards for the digital media organization
was an essential part of Steve’s job. To make his point, Jeff
asked Steve if he had ever seen the movie The Aviator, the
story of Howard Hughes, the business tycoon, aviator, and
film director. Jeff described a scene in which Hughes, played
by Leonardo DiCaprio, visits one of his aircraft manufacturing
facilities to check on the progress of his latest project—the
Hughes H-1 Racer, a sleek single-passenger plane designed to
set new speed records. Hughes examines the plane closely,
running his fingers along the surface of the fuselage. His team
watches anxiously. Hughes is not satisfied. “Not enough,” he
says. “Not enough. These rivets have to be completely flush. I
want no air resistance on the fuselage. She’s got to be cleaner.
Cleaner! You understand?”
    The team leader nods. Back to the drawing board.
     Jeff had told Steve that it was his job to be like Howard
Hughes. From then on, Steve had to run his fingers over each
new Amazon product, checking for anything that might reduce
the quality, insisting that his team maintain the highest
standards. My sense was that Steve was telling me the story
for two reasons. First, it was a kind of heads-up. He wanted
me to know, as one of his senior team members, that he would
be sending me and my team back to the drawing board if a
product didn’t measure up. Second, he was telling me
indirectly that I too was responsible for setting higher
standards for our products. I had to be more like Howard
Hughes.
                     The Issue of Rights
Now we had to figure out how to fix what we had so poorly
wrought.
     The fact of the matter was that Unbox was boxed in on all
sides: by our competitors, particularly Apple; by our reliance
on Microsoft for media playback and PCs running Windows;
and by our suppliers, the movie studios. A key issue was the
use of digital rights management software, or DRM, to control
the download of proprietary content and prevent theft, sharing,
and reuse by customers. Apple had developed its proprietary
DRM software, called FairPlay, that ensured secure content
download, and Apple had deals in place with the major content
producers. The only way for us to enable our customers to
download and play movies on Macs and iPods was to use
FairPlay DRM.
    We needed DRM software for Unbox, but there was no
way Apple would license FairPlay to us, and no way the
studios could force Apple to do so. Unless we built our own
DRM, we had to go with Microsoft’s Windows Media DRM,
which only worked on Windows devices, and there not very
well.
      If these hurdles weren’t difficult enough to surmount, we
were further frustrated by a little clause buried deep in
decades-old contracts between the motion picture studios and
the major pay TV channels such as HBO, Showtime, and Starz
—the “blackout window” clause. The clause stated that when
a new movie became available on DVD from a studio, we had
a clearly defined window—usually 60 to 90 days—during
which we could digitally sell or rent the title. After that came
the blackout window, a period usually lasting three years,
during which the pay TV channels had the exclusive rights to
air the movies, and we were not allowed to digitally rent or
sell them on our service.
     The studios were nervous and uncertain about the new
digital download services being offered by Amazon and
Apple, which they referred to as transactional video on
demand, or TVOD. Yes, they could see that TVOD was
growing fast and held enormous promise, but the revenue
stream was still just a trickle—tens of millions of dollars a
year—and it looked like a risky bet, so they were reluctant to
change their contracts.
     For us, it meant that we had a very short sales window for
our digital movie service. Two to three months after the
release of the DVD, then nothing for three years, the period of
greatest demand.
     We knew that we had to change this if we expected video
streaming to become a great customer experience and a big
business for us in the long term. But I would quickly learn that
this was not within our control. When I met with studio
executives, I would explain that the TVOD business was going
to take off and would one day be much more valuable to them
than their pay-TV deals. The executives nodded, said they
understood, agreed that this needed to change, but told me
their bosses didn’t see it that way. As with all media
companies, the decisions made by top Hollywood brass were
then, and still are, all about achieving short-term financial
goals.
     Fast-forward ten years, and thanks to their short-term
thinking, the studios were scrambling to launch their own
streaming video services like Disney+, Warner’s HBO Max,
and NBC’s Peacock in a bid to fight for their survival and
compete with Amazon and Netflix.
     At Amazon, our compensation wasn’t tied to financial
results. As we mentioned in chapter one, the maximum base
salary at Seattle headquarters was $160,000 per year, and there
was no bonus system at all. Additional compensation was in
Amazon stock. If you got a raise, it was completely in stock,
which wouldn’t begin vesting for 18 to 24 months.
    My incentives were very different from those of my
counterparts at the movie studios and record companies. To
benefit financially, I needed Amazon to grow over the long
term. I can’t say that everyone at Amazon was always pleased
with this compensation philosophy. We all have a need to be
rewarded for an important accomplishment, and we want to
receive our reward in a timely fashion. But for those who
thought and acted long term, and hung around, it paid off.
    We weren’t about to bring the studios around to Amazon’s
way of operating, so for Unbox this was a battle we couldn’t
and didn’t win. In fact, it wasn’t until 2013 that the blackout
clause was removed.
     Given all these challenges, it was hard to see how we
could fix Unbox. We were a distant number two in the
business to Apple, who had launched their digital video
service just a few days after we did. It was super frustrating for
me and the team to be looking up at Apple in those days. They
had the iPod and iTunes, the most popular media device and
application, respectively. The two worked seamlessly together
and inspired customer love, so it was extremely difficult to
identify any vulnerability in their product that would enable us
to catch or pass them.
             Seeking a Path to the Living Room
In the late autumn of 2006 I held a two-day offsite meeting
with the Amazon Unbox team to develop plans for 2007. If we
had worked at many other companies of our size, we might
have flown the team to some fabulous location like Sun Valley,
Sedona, or Napa, stayed in a five-star hotel, had meetings in
the morning and spent the afternoon playing golf, followed by
the sipping of wine. But one implication of being at the earth’s
most customer-centric company is that you don’t spend money
on things that don’t benefit customers. Not only did we stay in
Seattle, we didn’t even spend money to book a conference
room at a local hotel. We made our way from 605 5th Avenue
South to another Amazon office building next to Seattle’s
Union Station. I don’t think we even paid for lunch.
     We devoted two days to discussions about how to fix
Unbox. The team had spent two weeks writing PR/FAQs and
narratives describing various product ideas and solutions to
make our video service a success. Some focused on how to
improve the user interface. Others thought a big marketing
campaign was the solution. But none would solve the
fundamental problems of Mac access or studio blackout. My
frustration grew as I rejected one proposal after another.
   Then a new business development guy on the team, Josh
Kramer, spoke up.
     Josh, unlike the rest of us MBAs and engineers, had actual
experience in Hollywood. He had co-produced the movie
Death and the Maiden, directed by Roman Polanski, starring
Sigourney Weaver and Ben Kingsley. But Josh was not your
typical Gucci-loafer-wearing, Porsche-driving Hollywood guy.
Somehow, he managed to stain his perpetually untucked shirt
(before untucking was cool) with coffee or ketchup every day.
His shoes were always untied, his glasses held together with
tape. His desk was an OSHA violation of half-consumed
coffee cups, food, and stacks of stained papers. Josh was a
creative and brilliant guy who had majored in sound as art
medium at Brown and also had an MBA from Wharton. Not
only did he understand the inner workings of Hollywood, he
had also taught himself to write code as a hobby. So he
understood business, tech, and content.
     In the few months that Josh had been on the team, he had
been meeting with many potential partners, one of which was
TiVo—the pioneer in digital video recording devices, or
DVRs. Typically, a biz dev guy like Josh will come back from
third-party meetings spouting seemingly great ideas for
partnerships that end up being technically impossible. Josh, on
the other hand, came back from his meetings with an idea that
might actually work—Amazon movies could be downloaded
to a TiVo set-top box. He had vetted the idea with our
engineering team before pitching it at the onsite offsite.
     This offered a win for both companies and our mutual
customers. For TiVo, they added a broad selection of movies
and TV shows to buy and rent on demand from a trusted
brand. And for us, TiVo would provide us with a “path to the
living room”—more specifically a route to the television set.
In those days, most people wanted to watch movies with their
butt planted firmly on their living room couch, gazing at their
48-inch flat-screen TV, not with their nose glued to the
computer screen.
     In March 2007 we launched Unbox on TiVo,2 and just like
that, we were delivering a customer experience we could be
proud of, at least once you got it set up. You could browse and
shop for movies and shows on the Amazon site, and they
would be downloaded automatically to your TiVo. The
download still took time, but it had a feature called progressive
download. As soon as the runtime of the downloaded content
exceeded the time it would take to download the rest of the
movie, you could start watching. It wasn’t real streaming, but
it did speed things up. Amazon customers who already owned
a TiVo device were delighted and sang our praises. TiVo
became our best source of growth for revenue and new
customers.
    Unfortunately, though, our competitors hadn’t been idle.
                    A Massive Disruption
Two months earlier, in January 2007, Netflix launched its
video streaming service, then called Watch Now, inaugurating
one of the most profound changes in the history of the
entertainment industry. In those days the Netflix streaming
service offered a pretty paltry selection, about a thousand
movies and TV shows, mostly classics like Casablanca, cult
films, foreign titles, and a few TV series such as the original
BBC series House of Cards—no recent releases or big hits.
But they’d made significant breakthroughs that would stand
them in good stead as they improved their content.
     The two big, revolutionary breakthrough features of the
Netflix service were subscription and streaming. Amazon and
Apple were the leaders in premium movie and TV distribution,
but we offered downloads only (and you had to purchase or
rent each movie or show). We thought of streaming as a low-
quality phenomenon—the domain of YouTube, with its videos
of dancing cats that you watched on your PC for a couple of
minutes between meetings. So when Netflix launched Watch
Now, we took note and discussed the service in detail, but the
prevailing wisdom inside our team and among others in the
industry was that it was a half-baked test, not a serious
offering.
      The other noteworthy feature of the Netflix streaming
service was that it was free. Actually, as my mother used to
say when trying to teach me good fiscal sense, “It isn’t free.
It’s included.” It came at no extra cost with most of the Netflix
DVD rental-by-mail subscription plans.
     In retrospect, it seems obvious that the Netflix launch was
a significant threat, because streaming plus subscription would
prove to be the magic combination in the digital video
business. And they were smart and savvy about how they
launched it by including the streaming titles as free/included
for DVD subscribers. This eliminated the major hurdle of
getting people to pay for a subscription service from a cold
start. But we were hardly the only company not to understand
the threat. Jeff Bewkes famously said that the Netflix threat to
Warner Bros., where he was chairman at the time, was about
the same as the threat of the Albanian army to the U.S. armed
forces. “[I]s the Albanian Army going to take over the
world?… I don’t think so,” he told the New York Times.3 Oh
the delicious irony that, ten years later, Jeff Bewkes and the
CEO of AT&T were in the midst of a public relations
campaign to convince the Justice Department that the merger
of their two companies was necessary because the roles had
reversed—Netflix was now the U.S. Army, and Warner had
become the Albanians! It turns out that, like Amazon, Netflix
has a track record of long-term thinking and willingness to be
misunderstood for long periods of time, both of which have
contributed to their great success.
     Another reason we didn’t take the Netflix streaming
service seriously was that it had no immediate, perceptible
impact on Unbox. But when Hulu launched in October 2007,
the impact was perceptible. Unlike Netflix streaming, Hulu
offered some of the most popular TV shows in the United
States—the latest shows from Fox and NBC the day after they
aired on TV. Not only that, Hulu was free (with advertising),
and not the included-kind-of-free that my mom taught me
about—just plain free. We had been selling these same TV
shows on Unbox for $2.99 an episode, which was cheaper than
buying a DVD, and making them available the day after
broadcast. Now, with Hulu, you could watch many of the same
shows, just as soon, and for free. Suddenly our $2.99 was a
lousy deal, and a bunch of our top-selling TV shows were not
selling at all. (Maybe the Hulu launch was also a bit painful
because it was led by my [Bill’s] first Amazon manager, and
good friend, Jason Kilar, the first CEO of Hulu.)
     We had no ability to influence the studios on this matter
because two of them—News Corp and NBC Universal—
owned Hulu. They had created the service in response to the
growth of YouTube and its sale, in 2006, just six months after
its launch, to Google for $1.65 billion. The studios figured
they could create a similar service, offering Hollywood
content, and sell it for even bigger bucks, just as fast.
     Except it didn’t turn out that way. Although Hulu attracted
a lot of viewers, the potential buyers—including Apple,
Amazon, and Google—realized that the studios would never
sell their content along with Hulu and, without it, Hulu was
not worth nearly as much. Eventually, Hulu went to a
subscription model and is now controlled by Disney. It did not
fade away, however. It continued to gain viewers and also got
into production, creating such hits as The Handmaid’s Tale. It
has become an important long-term asset for Disney in their
bid to compete with Netflix and Amazon.
                       Connected TVs
In 2008, further developments showed that the path to the
living room had more twists and turns that would have to be
negotiated. We decided it was time for Amazon to add
streaming video to our download service and saw the shift as
an opportunity to dump the name Unbox, which had
accumulated a lot of negative baggage.4 We relaunched the
service in September 2008 with the name Amazon Video On
Demand (VOD). No, it wasn’t particularly creative—we were
a bit gun-shy after our creative flop with the Unbox branding
—but it was accurate and, best of all, it wasn’t Unbox. We also
launched our streaming application on TV sets offered by
many manufacturers, including Sony, Vizio, Samsung, LG,
and Panasonic, as well as a new streaming device from a
company called Roku, which is now in more than 20 million
homes.5
     With streaming on demand, Amazon customers could at
last watch their favorite movies and TV shows on their
television set rather than on the small screens of their
computers and phones. But because the speed of internet
connection varied from home to home, and because there were
so many different kinds of hardware and software involved,
the viewing experience varied from device to device and
customer to customer. Some were delighted; some tore their
hair out. The hair-tearers typically suffered from a
phenomenon known as “rebuffering,” which is what happens
when the downloading speed lags behind the viewing: the
picture freezes, and you get to watch the “spinning wait
cursor,” more commonly referred to as the “wheel of death.”
This was a common enough occurrence that I made the
decision to provide customers with an automatic refund if they
had to suffer through three or more rebufferings while
watching a movie rental. We would still have to pay the studio
their share of the purchase, but I felt we had to make it clear
that Amazon understood that this was not acceptable.
    I hadn’t checked with Jeff on the refund, but I guess he
agreed. In his shareholder letter he wrote:
    We build automated systems that look for occasions when
    we’ve provided a customer experience that isn’t up to our
    standards, and those systems then proactively refund
    customers. One industry observer recently received an
    automated email from us that said, “We noticed that you
    experienced poor video playback while watching the
    following rental on Amazon Video On Demand:
    Casablanca. We’re sorry for the inconvenience and have
    issued you a refund for the following amount: $2.99. We
    hope to see you again soon.” Surprised by the proactive
    refund, he ended up writing about the experience:
    “Amazon ‘noticed that I experienced poor video
    playback…’ And they decided to give me a refund
    because of that? Wow … Talk about putting customers
    first.”6
     Netflix remained the streaming leader. They had
recognized the promise of streaming to living room devices
early on and created a dedicated engineering team to develop
proprietary streaming technology. By 2008, Netflix was
available on an impressive array of devices including TVs,
Blu-ray players, and game consoles from many manufacturers.
They also kept adding to their library of titles. Netflix’s
business was exploding.
    At that time, gaming console use was also growing fast
with Microsoft Xbox, Sony PlayStation, and Nintendo Wii.
There were tens of millions of game consoles in U.S.
households, and nearly all of them were connected to HDTVs
and the internet. Gamers pounded on their consoles for hours
every day but they needed to take a break now and again, so
watching a movie or TV show was an obvious and easy value
proposition for them. We wanted to make Amazon VOD
available on game consoles, too.
     But our business development team had some bad news
for us. Neither Microsoft nor Sony would allow us to put the
Amazon streaming app on their gaming devices, because they
had their own à la carte digital video stores and wanted to
build those businesses. They did not ban Netflix, however,
because it was a subscription service, and they did not see it as
directly competitive. We were seriously disadvantaged by our
exclusion from those devices in those first two or three years.
One alarming statistic shows why: we estimated that 95
percent of Netflix’s streams came either through their website,
the three main game consoles (Xbox, PlayStation, and
Nintendo Wii), or through the iPad and iPhone.
     We also got pushback from some retailers. At the time,
Walmart and Best Buy sold the most TVs to consumers, but
Amazon’s retail business was a growing threat to them.
Starting in 2007, they had employed a number of tactics to
slow us down, such as declining to carry Amazon gift cards in
their stores. Now their buyers warned some of the electronics
manufacturers that any devices loaded with Amazon Video On
Demand would not make it to their shelves. Walmart and Best
Buy were such dominant players in the sale of electronic
devices that many manufacturers wouldn’t work with us.
When we convinced Sony to add Amazon’s streaming service
to their Bravia TVs and Blu-ray players in September 2008,
the logjam started to break. But it would take another four
long years for us to convince the PlayStation team to play
along with Amazon so we could finally tap into the 20
million–strong PlayStation user base.
     The delays prevented faster growth, and it became
increasingly clear to us that the digital media business was
very different from our online physical goods retail business.
We did not have full control of the content (movies and TV
shows) we were selling. We did not have proprietary or unique
content, as Netflix did. Nor did we have control of the devices
people used to play and display content, as Microsoft, Sony,
and Apple did.
     The inputs to the Amazon flywheel of growth—low
prices, faster delivery, lower cost structure—were not
dimensions along which we could differentiate from our
competitors if we only offered an à la carte digital video store.
There was one aspect of the process, however, that did require
technical skill: building applications that functioned well on a
range of TVs and set-top devices and delivered high-quality
video without crashing or constant rebuffering. That’s why we
eventually purchased a small London-based software
engineering shop called Pushbutton.
     Even our great asset, the Amazon website, wasn’t quite as
important to the sale of digital media as it was to physical
goods. Yes, it attracted lots of customers who were looking to
buy media products, but applications on Macs, PCs, tablets,
phones, and TVs were more and more important than our
website for delivering a high-quality digital media experience.
Apple, for example, sold all their digital media through an
application running on Macs and PCs (iTunes) rather than on
their website. And, unlike Amazon, Apple had control over
their own devices. The combination of application and device
delivered a high-quality streaming (or download) and playback
experience and therefore delivered tremendous value to the
consumer.
     When it came to content controlled by the studios, nothing
much had changed. Content creators like HBO had an
advantage because they had a unique and exclusive content
offering—shows like The Sopranos and later Game of Thrones
—and had exclusive movie licensing deals with the studios. At
that time, no other company was in the internet-delivered
subscription business, so HBO had the field mostly to
themselves. They could license and accumulate a lot of great
movies and TV shows with very little competition.
     But as the Apple and HBO business models demonstrate,
there was one important way that the world of digital media
was the same as the old, analog media world: there was still a
great advantage to be had in control. In the old media world,
you could control one of two things: the method of distribution
of the content or the content itself (or in some cases both).
Broadcast networks like NBC and CBS controlled their
networks and also developed exclusive content such as TV
shows, sports events, and news broadcasts. Studios like
Warner and Disney created movies and shows. In the new
digital media world, broadcast networks and studios would
lose their control on distribution, to be replaced by
applications on internet-connected devices.
     As time went on, we realized that Amazon Video On
Demand was stuck in the middle of the value chain—the
valley, really. We didn’t control the upstream end of content
development. We didn’t control the downstream end of
playback devices. We were essentially a digital distribution
system, with nothing unique or proprietary about it. No
wonder we kept slamming into barriers on both ends of the
value chain—content development and distribution on devices.
     As we discussed in the Kindle chapter, years earlier,
probably in 2004, Jeff and Steve had drawn a simple diagram
of the value chain. Here it is again:




     It was this insight into the value chain that led us to create
Kindle. Since we didn’t do content creation via developing or
publishing books (although we would do that later), we made
the move to control consumption, that is, the reading
experience. In digital movies and TV, we were still stuck in the
aggregation role. The retail business input metrics of price and
selection did not differentiate us in this digital business, and
our output metrics—number of video buyers and revenue—
showed that this strategy was a failure. So, beginning in 2010,
we put our resources into a number of new initiatives designed
to get us out of the middle: Prime Instant Video, Amazon
Studios, and new Amazon devices—Fire Tablet, Fire Phone,
Fire TV, and Echo/Alexa. We also made an acquisition that
enabled us to increase our capabilities and expand our
geographic reach.
     Prime Instant Video: An Oh-by-the-Way Benefit
In 2010, we held a series of meetings with Jeff to discuss ideas
and options for moving us toward the lucrative ends of the
value chain. It was clear that consumers loved the all-you-can-
eat, fee-based subscription model of Netflix, but we learned
that Netflix was probably pouring between $30 and $40
million annually into licensing deals. While today, $40 million
does not seem like a lot of money for Amazon to invest,
believe me, this was not the case at the much smaller and
leaner Amazon of 2010. That number shocked us. It seemed
like a crazy big commitment.
    Not to Jeff. In one meeting he said something like, “In
case it isn’t clear enough, I want to see the plan for how we are
going to make a similar investment to get going in
subscription video.” Jeff also made it clear that we should
explore other big, digital-media ideas, including the creation
of hardware devices.
    Wisely, I took Jeff’s not-so-subtle hint that it was time for
my team and me to get going on it.
     I tasked Cameron Janes to lead the effort, with Josh
Kramer taking point on working with studios. The two had
been key leaders in my organization for several years and were
veterans of the digital entertainment business. Cameron had
joined the team in July 2007 after having spent the prior few
years working on the e-commerce business at Walmart.com.
He was a well-rounded business athlete with an MBA from
Kellogg who could tackle any problem whether it pertained to
content, finance, product, or otherwise. Whatever it was, if I
gave it to Cameron, he would grab hold of it and figure it out.
     So began weeks and weeks of effort, meetings, and idea
iteration. Three of the ideas we pursued were for hardware
devices. One was a universal remote control that would make
it easy to play Amazon video on your TV. Another was for a
puck-shaped device that was connected to your home AV
system. It would learn the preferences of each member of the
household through voice detection and commands, enabling
personalized video playback for each customer. This was a
variant on the puck idea first conceived by Jeff years earlier as
a shopping device (mentioned in chapter five), and it would
later morph again to become the Amazon Echo. A third idea
was for a set-top device that was preloaded with the most
popular movies and shows and would be updated wirelessly.
We spent weeks researching, writing, and rewriting PR/FAQs
for these ideas, but there were technical licensing or pricing
problems with all of them. After several weeks, we shifted our
focus exclusively to subscription content ideas.
     Josh led the information-gathering part of the effort. He
worked the phones, took in-person meetings with people he
already knew at the major studios, and also established new
relationships.
     What we learned in the process was disheartening. Netflix
had such a big head start that, even with a similar budget, there
was no way we could put together a catalog with the kind of
selection they offered. We also learned that the $30–40 million
figure we had heard was off. By the time we got started,
Netflix was spending twice that on content.
     In the subscription business, it’s no good to come out
second with a copycat offering. We had to offer movies and
shows that Netflix didn’t have available. We also had to have a
different offering from Hulu, which had a lock on most of the
best series from Fox and NBC. In the TVOD business,
differentiation based on selection wasn’t possible—Amazon,
Apple, Microsoft, and Sony all had the same titles—but in the
subscription business, a unique catalog was key.
      We brainstormed countless concepts. One approach was
to go deep in specific genres like horror or documentaries.
Another was to attract customers by offering one free movie
per week in hopes they would be enticed to sign up for the
subscription. We talked about starting at a low price, maybe
$3.99 a month, in recognition that our selection of quality
titles was pretty slim. But we wouldn’t make much money at
that price. And we would want to raise the price as soon as we
could and that was not very Amazonian.
     In our fourth or fifth meeting with Jeff, it was painfully
obvious that we were getting nowhere with hardware or
subscription. A small group of the leaders of the digital video
team sat around the table in his small conference room on the
sixth floor of the Day One North building in South Lake
Union. Just as we had in previous meetings, we reviewed a
bunch of ideas, talked about movie genres, and considered
pricing and budget options.
   At some point, Jeff came up with a simple idea: “Let’s
make videos free for Prime members.”
     This had not been on anybody’s list of ideas. How would
that work? Jeff reminded us of how Netflix got started by
offering Watch Now streaming videos to its DVD subscription
service—free. I mean included. “It’s an ‘oh-by-the-way’
offering,” he said. When Netflix started, they didn’t have a
great selection of movies and TV shows either, not good
enough that customers would pay extra for them. Instead,
Netflix gave their customers additional value as part of their
existing subscription. Netflix was essentially saying, “The
service you pay for is great and, oh, by the way, here is
something extra for you to watch.” As we spoke, three years
later, most Netflix customers were exclusively streamers. They
never rented a DVD. The transition might not have been as
smooth and seamless if Netflix had started the streaming
offering as a separate subscription service from launch.
Actually, it’s unlikely that many consumers would have been
willing to pay a subscription fee at all.
     There is a difficult chicken-and-egg problem with a
subscription service. You need to have a great offering to
attract paying subscribers. To be able to afford a great offering,
you need a lot of paying subscribers. It’s a challenging cold-
start problem that generally requires a large up-front
investment, which you can hopefully pay back with subscriber
growth in future years. Jeff argued that even if we offered
streaming videos to Prime members at no additional cost, the
business could still be profitable in the long run. (Long-term
thinking = being Amazonian.)
     How? A streaming subscription service is a fixed-cost
business. When Netflix licensed a movie or TV series from a
studio, they paid a fixed fee. The amount was not based on
usage. Netflix customers could watch the video once or ten
million times, the costs were the same. Yes, there were some
variable costs involved, for bandwidth and servers, but these
costs amounted to pennies per view. And, as with most
technology, those costs declined over time. The cost structure
is very different from the DVD rental-by-mail business, where
the costs—warehouses, wages, shipping, replacement discs—
are variable. The major benefit of establishing a popular
subscription service with a fixed-cost base is that once you
exceed a certain number of subscribers, every new dollar of
subscription revenue is pure profit. The hard parts of pulling
off this strategy are (a) acquiring a large number of
subscribers, and (b) building a catalog of must-see movies and
TV series. By integrating Prime Video into the already large
and growing Prime customer base we had a leg up on solving
the first problem. We were less concerned about the poor
initial selection because our time horizon for success was
measured in years. We were confident that, given time, we
could make the right investments and assemble a great
selection of movies and TV series. If we did this well,
customers would eventually be attracted to Prime, not only for
the fast free shipping but also for the streaming videos
included in the fee.
    The “oh-by-the-way” addition would become a “gotta-
have” benefit.
     Jeff also argued that Prime, with streaming video, would
be a unique offering and competitive differentiator. Amazon
was an increasingly complex company, competing in multiple
markets and territories around the world. To establish Amazon
as a distinct product in every business category and every
market was incredibly difficult to do. But he saw Prime as a
tantalizing way to do just that. Any competitor might launch a
Prime shipping clone, or they could potentially build a new
Netflix-type service, but it was unlikely that any one of them
would be able to do both.
     Prime Video was a go, and we had only a few months to
get it ready for launch—scheduled for February 2011.
                  LOVEFiLM: Not Actually
During that same period, we were pursuing another initiative:
the acquisition of a European movie and TV subscription
service called LOVEFiLM. It was essentially the Netflix of
Europe, offering DVD rental by mail as well as streaming
films and TV shows. LOVEFiLM would help us get a jump on
Netflix, which had not launched in Europe at the time. After
the acquisition, we entered quickly into negotiations with
several studios for long-term exclusive licenses to some of the
best movies and TV series from Hollywood. If all went as we
expected, our selection in the United Kingdom and Germany
would be better than that of either Amazon or Netflix in the
United States.
      Then, in early 2011, the floor fell out from under our feet.
The key studios—including Sony, Warner, and others—
informed us that Netflix had entered the bidding for the same
titles we wanted and had offered twice the money for them.
Out of the blue, we found ourselves in a bidding war. Who
won? The studios. Their fees skyrocketed while we duked it
out with Netflix, all to win the eyes, ears, and hearts of UK
and German customers.
     This experience crystallized our thinking about the value
chain. It seemed to me that going forward we had to get out of
the never-ending cycle of bidding against Netflix and, later,
Hulu. We didn’t want to pay studios additional fees for each
and every country we entered. We had to control our own
destiny. That led me to a startling conclusion: we had to create
our own content. It was time to make our own movies and TV
shows.
                At the Delivery End: Devices
Meanwhile, as we were figuring out how to navigate to the
upstream end of the value chain and finding our way through
the LOVEFiLM acquisition, we were also working to establish
a presence at the other end—consumption and playback. For
that, we needed to create our own hardware offerings, devices
that would enable consumers to access Amazon content within
the context of the entire Amazon experience. Because, years
earlier, Steve Kessel had established an organization and
capability to design and develop our own devices, beginning
with Kindle, we were positioned to innovate and build a
variety of devices that could also support video, music, apps,
and more.
    The first device out of the gate was the Kindle Fire Tablet,
launched in November 2011. It had much of the capability of
the iPad and sold for $199—hundreds less than the iPad.
Launching Amazon Video on Fire Tablet was a scramble that
involved overcoming all kinds of security and rights
challenges, especially because it was our first time enabling
HD video on a mobile device.
     Kindle Fire Tablet quickly gained a meaningful share of
the market and got Amazon a secure toehold at the video
playback end of the value chain. Just shy of a year after
launch, in September 2012, Kindle Fire Tablet had sold
millions of units and was the second-bestselling tablet after the
iPad.7 We dropped the Kindle name in 2014, and Amazon has
continued to improve and add capability to the Fire Tablet,
such that today it is a staple of the Amazon device offering.
    After the success of Fire Tablet, the Amazon Devices
organization, now led by Dave Limp, began to develop so
many new offerings that they just identified them with letters,
which made them easier to talk about and keep track of. It also
helped keep the name and nature of the project confidential. If
an unauthorized person happened into a discussion about
Project A, they wouldn’t have much to go on. Fire TV was
project B, code-named “Bueller” after Ferris Bueller’s Day
Off.
     Fire TV launched in April 2014 at $99, with a number of
features that improved the customer experience. In particular,
we put our years of app-building experience to work to design
a fluid and intuitive user interface. It enabled viewers to bridge
what we thought of as the ten-foot user interface gap—the 10'
UI, for short—meaning the distance between the couch and
the TV set. Fire TV had voice search capability built into the
remote control, which made it much easier for viewers to find,
select, and play the show they wanted to see.
     The results speak for themselves. As of this writing, there
are millions of Fire TVs in homes around the globe—it is one
of the top-selling TV-connected video streaming devices in the
world.
               Amazon, Hollywood Producer
We’d known since our first experiments began in 2010 that we
wanted our own TV series and movies. And we saw just how
competitive and expensive it was—and would continue to be
—to purchase content from a multitude of studios and other
parties. We had to create our own if we wanted to control our
costs and enjoy the benefits of having exclusive, first-run TV
shows and movies that we could stream to customers
worldwide.
     Despite the false start, getting Amazon Studios off the
ground was one of the fastest new business creation tasks I had
during my time at Amazon. This is largely because of the
particular and distinct nature of the entertainment industry.
Unlike the software and hardware engineering talent pool,
which is limited and in high demand, there is a large talent
pool of producers, directors, actors, and craftspeople. A small
percentage of them are full-time employees in any kind of
organization. Most are independent, freelance contractors.
Engagements are relatively short term. Scripts too are in
virtually endless supply, although, as we’d learned, the
percentage of great ones is small.
     All it really takes to get a production going is commitment
and, most important of all, capital. Amazon had the cash. The
hard part was finding, selecting, and sometimes competing for,
the best scripts to greenlight. To solve that challenge, we
opened an office in Santa Monica and hired a team of
development executives, each of whom had a focus on a
specific content genre: comedy, drama, kids. We made no
exceptions for the fact that this was Hollywood. We used the
Bar Raiser process to hire each member of the Studios team,
and they would have to get accustomed to our frugal ways,
including working in small, shared offices or open
workspaces, a base salary capped at $160K, no cash bonus
program, and riding in coach, not first class. This made for
some hard conversations.
     It’s important to say that changes in the environment had
also made the new initiative easier and, in fact, possible.
Streaming had become ubiquitous. We had the hardware in
place. And there was one other significant development: the
Netflix original series House of Cards, which first aired in
February 2013. It was a 13-episode political thriller starring
big Hollywood names Kevin Spacey and Robin Wright. The
show was a sensation, a hit, and a game-changer. Before
House of Cards, most A-list Hollywood players wanted
nothing to do with online productions. Such things were
beneath them, just as appearing in advertising had once been
seen as low class. But Spacey was willing to take that risk, and
he and Netflix broke through the barrier. Though his career has
since cratered after allegations of sexual misconduct, he was
then an unquestioned star: an Academy Award winner, with a
long and respected career onstage, in television, and in the
movies. Not only did he agree to do the show, but House of
Cards won multiple awards. Spacey himself became the first
actor in a web TV series to be nominated for an Emmy, and he
won a Golden Globe for his performance as the anything-goes
politician who becomes president, Frank Underwood.
    A door had opened.
     Now we began to operate like a Hollywood studio, with
the continuing and important difference that we compensated
our team in the same way we compensated all Amazon
leaders: no short-term performance targets. The development
team was smart and focused in their pursuit of the best scripts
that would appeal to Amazon viewers based on years of
viewership data. We greenlighted five comedies and five kids
shows for pilots (Jeff was involved in the selection). That
meant we would produce ten pilot shows, most of them
costing several million dollars to create. We did add one
interesting new wrinkle. We made all the pilots available to
view for free on Amazon before making a decision as to which
to greenlight. Through this process, we were able to gather
viewership data and ratings and reviews from real customers
in order to make better-informed decisions about which shows
would attract the most viewers. So, after all, we did find a way
to make the process more customer centric than the studios’,
and therefore more Amazonian.
     For kids, we greenlit Creative Galaxy and Tumbleleaf,
series that would receive audience and critical acclaim and live
on for three and six seasons, respectively. Of the five comedies
we produced, we selected two for full-season production.
Alpha House was developed by Doonesbury cartoonist Garry
Trudeau, and it told the stories of three Republican senators
living together in a row house in Washington, D.C. It
premiered in April 2013. The second was Betas, our take on
the Silicon Valley culture, which aired the following year.
Both shows were solid efforts but did not become major hits.
     In 2014 and early 2015, we premiered new Amazon
Studios series Transparent, Mozart in the Jungle, and The Man
in the High Castle. These series gained a great deal of
attention and put Amazon on the map as a producer of high-
quality, distinctive content.



We entered the world of subscription service in 2004 and
digital media in 2006, with the goal of generating growth.
Both were long-term efforts that took time to develop and
more time to realize their objectives. There were some real
setbacks—most notably, Unbox. But with digital media, all
four initiatives—Prime Video, devices, the LOVEFiLM
acquisition, and Amazon Studios—succeeded in their own
ways and to different degrees.
     Throughout the development of these projects, we
adhered to Amazon’s distinctive management practices. Above
all, they are examples of Amazonian long-term thinking,
customer obsession, willingness to invent, and operational
excellence. Throughout, we were stubborn on the vision and
flexible on the details.
10
AWS
    A new class of customers. The origins of AWS in data sharing with affiliates.
    Colin gets “the call” from Jeff, who comes on board. Eight people attend the
    first software developer conference. How the Invent and Simplify leadership
    principle enabled Amazon to become the leader in web services. How we
    used the Working Backwards process to create AWS.




Scene: Colin’s office. His phone rings. Caller ID displays “Jeff
Bezos.”
COLIN: Hi, Jeff.
JEFF: Hi, Colin. I’m getting up to speed on what we are doing
   with web services and your name came up. Can you tell
   me what you are doing, if anything, with web services?
COLIN: Sure. It’s probably easiest to show you. When is a
   good time for you?
JEFF: How about now?
COLIN (while canceling the next two meetings and tucking his
   laptop under his arm): Now is great. I’ll be right down.
     As we’ve already seen, in the early 2000s, the
transformation from physical media to digital media posed an
existential threat to Amazon’s business. Roughly 75 percent of
Amazon’s business at that time consisted of selling physical
books, CDs, and DVDs to customers. We had to invent or risk
becoming an irrelevant has-been in media sales. Also, while
hugely successful, Amazon Prime was essentially an extension
(albeit a very large one) of our existing online physical media
retail business.
    Unlike Digital or Prime, however, Amazon Web Services
had nothing to do with the core business. The term “cloud
computing”—the on-demand delivery of IT resources such as
computing power and data storage over the internet with pay-
as-you-go pricing without having to buy, own, and maintain
physical data centers and servers1—wasn’t widely used in the
early 2000s, and Amazon was likely not on many people’s list
of companies that were well positioned to offer it. Further, it
involved an entirely new class of customer for Amazon:
software developers.
     In this chapter we will not provide a comprehensive story
about the origins and history of AWS. That subject could fill a
whole book in itself. Instead, we will attempt to answer the
following two questions, which can help you incorporate key
elements of being Amazonian into your organization:

    1. What elements of being Amazonian enabled Amazon
       to move into this completely separate line of business?
    2. Why was Amazon able to master cloud computing well
       before its potential competitors, including entrenched
       companies with large businesses to protect and well-
       capitalized web-based tech companies?

     The answers to both questions come down to single-
threaded teams ruthlessly iterating with the Working
Backwards process, and obsessing over the customer
experience, in order to discover the fundamental needs of the
software developer in the new paradigm of cloud computing.
Influences
Web Services Proof of Concept
It was 2001, and I (Colin) was managing the affiliates business
called Amazon Associates. This program allowed third parties,
commonly referred to as affiliates, to place links to Amazon
products on their websites. For example, as we mentioned
before, a site about mountain climbing might include a curated
list of recommended mountain climbing books with links to
Amazon. When a visitor clicked on one of the links on the
affiliate website, they were taken to the book detail page on
the Amazon site. If the visitor bought a product with Amazon,
the owner of the affiliate website would earn a referral fee. Up
until this point, affiliates could choose which Amazon
products they wanted to feature along with a few parameters to
determine how they would be displayed on their website,
similar to how an ad server works today. The program was
wildly popular. Over the four years I was involved with the
program, the number of affiliates grew from 30,000 to roughly
one million. But, as Jeff often mentions, customers are
divinely discontented, and “yesterday’s ‘wow’ quickly
becomes today’s ‘ordinary.’”2 And we simply didn’t have
enough design resources to seamlessly integrate Amazon
products into each of our affiliate’s websites.
      That’s when we took a step back, placed ourselves in our
affiliates’ shoes, and looked at the problem from their
perspective. We’d been operating on the correct assumption
that the big attraction of the program for affiliates was the
Amazon products themselves, but in so doing we’d overlooked
their desire to have choices around the look and feel of the
display—for instance, the font size, color palette, or image
size. Turns out they didn’t want to settle for the “best
available” Amazon format.
     So, in March 2002, we decided to take a chance and
launch an experimental feature that changed the way we
shared information with the affiliates. Instead of receiving a
fully formed product display, the affiliates could choose to
receive the product data in a text format called XML. The
affiliates would then take that XML product data and write
their own software code to incorporate it into their websites
according to their own design standards. The goal was for us
to get out of the design business so they could innovate
without us holding them back.
     This feature was novel and risky in two ways. First, since
we began the Associates Program, our core customer had been
the owner of a website. To be an affiliate, it was not necessary
to be a software developer, or even to be able to understand or
write basic computer code. That meant we had to keep things
very simple. We would generate the code for the affiliate. Just
a few mouse clicks were all that was needed to be up and
running. No software programming was necessary.
     This new feature was different. It was aimed at a technical
audience, affiliates who had software developers on their
teams who knew how to write code that transforms the product
data XML into something that looks good on their website. We
had to create new elements such as user manuals, technical
specifications, and sample code all rolled into a software
developer kit (SDK) to show them how the system worked.
We also created a discussion board where developers could
post details about their experience with the services and ask
each other questions. We didn’t really know how our affiliates
would react to this more complicated but also more powerful
and flexible feature.
     The second way this feature was novel, and even
controversial, was that it was a lot more than just a tool that
allowed website owners to design their own links to Amazon
products. As the name suggests, the product data XML service
contained rich information about Amazon products, such as
“customers who bought this product also bought X.” We had
painstakingly built our catalog of tens of millions of products,
which also contained valuable data about consumer behavior
toward those products, and many in the company viewed this
catalog as a competitive asset not to be shared. On the
Associates team, however, we felt that the benefits of letting
hundreds of thousands of developers build commerce solutions
on top of this data outweighed the potential risks. We did place
some restrictions on what the affiliate could do with the data in
an attempt to mitigate our risk. They could only use it for
selling Amazon products, and they couldn’t store the data
permanently. Beyond that, although we were excited to see the
creative ways in which affiliates would use this data, no
amount of analysis could predict what they would do.
     Here’s another example of where a single-threaded leader
and team helps. I was accountable for the financial
performance and overall health of the affiliates business. Our
team had virtually all the resources required to launch this
feature: we had software engineers and product managers to
build the feature; and we had our own customer service
representatives armed with specialized knowledge and tools to
field questions from affiliates. We knew our customers well,
had conviction that the experiment was worth doing, and were
willing to be misunderstood as we tried something new. We
also had a rollback plan in the unlikely event that the
experiment failed.
     We decided to launch the feature and see what happened.
We issued no press release and made no big public
announcement. We simply sent an email to our affiliates that
explained the new feature and its potential benefits and
pointed them to the SDK we had created for them. We made it
clear that the feature wasn’t for everyone. They’d have to
write some code to get it to work for them.
     Whenever we sent an email like this one to our affiliates, I
made it a habit to monitor how they responded. I would look at
a dashboard that displayed such information as how many
people had read the email, how many had clicked on the links
in the email, and how many incremental referral fees were
generated as a result of the email. I’d also check in with our
customer service group for any anecdotal data they might have
collected about contacts with affiliates, and I’d also read the
comments and questions on the discussion board. I must
admit, I had been a little anxious after hitting the proverbial
send button for this particular email—the list of possible
outcomes ranged from promising to a very long day reacting
to bad news. That anxiety turned into excitement very quickly.
Literally hours after releasing this feature, I knew that we were
onto something big and that our experiment would far exceed
our expectations. On the discussion boards, affiliates were
posting links to web pages they had created with this new
service along with the code they used to do it. They were
proud of what they had created and wanted to share it with
others. They were enthusiastically answering questions posted
by other affiliates, even before we could respond. And they
immediately started suggesting new features that would make
the service even better.
     Over the next several days I compiled a list of websites
that were using the service in surprising and innovative ways.
One developer created an addictive game where visitors would
race against the clock and each other to see how fast they
could name the author, artist, or movie based on the cover art
flashed on the screen. Another developer made it easy for
people to create a web page containing a virtual bookshelf of
their personal media collections. Finally, there were two
examples that essentially tried to re-create the shopping
experience of Amazon but with completely different user
interfaces than that found on the Amazon site. The first case
we informally called Amazon Lite. It was a simple, stripped-
down, text-heavy version of the site. Not flashy, but it worked
especially well on small screens and feature phones. (The first
iPhone was still five years out in the future.) The second case
we labeled Amazon Graph, and it looked nothing like a
website. It was an app that displayed a network graph with
nodes and lines connecting the nodes. Each node represented a
single product, and the lines pointed to other products based
on our similarities data. It was a fascinating representation of
our product catalog. These types of web applications simply
could not have been created before we released this feature.
     And then I got “the call” mentioned at the top of the
chapter, when Jeff summoned me to his office. I grabbed my
laptop and hurried out of my office in the 1930s Art Deco
building that used to be part of the Marine Hospital Service,
descended one flight of stairs, and went into Jeff’s office. We
sat around a conference table next to his door desk where I
briefly explained the new feature. I told him the most
interesting insight was not what Amazon was doing with web
services; rather, it was what our affiliates were doing with
them. I proceeded to show him some of the more interesting
sites and applications, including some of the ones mentioned
above, along with numbers showing the traffic and sales
generated by them.
    I told Jeff that every day since the launch, software
developers were creating applications that used the features in
ways we had never imagined.
     After we finished the virtual tour, Jeff commented that
this adoption rate and level of innovation from a single feature
was unusual and that we needed to double down on our
activities in this area. I responded that we were looking at
ways to roll it out to a wider audience with a much richer
feature set in July, three months away. From that day, Jeff was
an avid supporter.
     Jeff was not the only one who saw promise in what we
were doing. Asking for additional software engineers to work
on your project at Amazon is akin to looking for loose change
someone left in a vending machine. It almost never happens.
But when I approached Neil Roseman, my manager, to see
whether anyone was available, he immediately got back to me
and said that a group headed by Rob Frederick had just
finished a project called Amazon Anywhere, which used XML
to enable Amazon commerce on mobile devices. Rob and his
team were just as passionate about web services as we were
and enthusiastically joined the effort. Sarah Spillman headed
up the product management team. We also had quite a bit of
support from Rick Dalzell, the CIO, and a senior technologist
and VP, Al Vermeulen, who would go on to play an
instrumental role in designing and building many of the key
components of AWS. Rob and Sarah rolled up their sleeves
and led the technology and business teams in the race to
launch the next full-featured version. Al and Rick helped
spread the news not only within Amazon but also among
several influential early adopters in the software industry.
    The next three months were a blur. We felt we were
pioneers creating something truly special for our new
customers, the software development community.
     Since we did not have much experience creating programs
for software developers, we sought in-person feedback from
heavy users of the service. We decided to host an Amazon
software developer conference in our Seattle headquarters.
The first one attracted a grand total of eight people. We flew
two of them in from Europe. I discovered, just a week before
the conference, that one of the European attendees was a
teenager. I had to check with our legal department if that was
okay—fortunately we didn’t need permission from his parents,
and he was able to join us at the conference.
     We worked out the logistics and set up a full day of
sessions. Tim O’Reilly and Rael Dornfest from the O’Reilly
Media, who were both avid supporters of the web services
movement and taught us a lot about this new field, were there
too. Another attendee was an avid customer who happened to
live in Seattle. His name was Jeff Barr. He commented:
    The attendees were outnumbered by the Amazon
    employees. We sat and listened as the speakers talked
    about their plans to build on their success and to expand
    their web service offering over time. One speaker (it may
    have been Colin Bryar but I am not sure) looked to the
    future and said that they would be looking around the
    company for other services to expose in the future.
        This was the proverbial light-bulb moment for me! It
    was obvious that they were thinking about developers,
    platforms, and APIs and I wanted to be a part of it.3
    Jeff Barr joined Amazon a few weeks later and is still
with the company, serving as VP and chief evangelist for
AWS.
     For those in attendance, the final session of the day was
probably the most memorable—a Q&A with Jeff Bezos.
Needless to say, many of those eight attendees were thrilled
and surprised at the chance for this intimate meeting with Jeff,
as well as by the depth of his knowledge about the service. In
his 2006 shareholder letter, Jeff made his reasons clear:
    Like any company, we have a corporate culture formed
    not only by our intentions but also as a result of our
    history. For Amazon, that history is fairly fresh and,
    fortunately, it includes several examples of tiny seeds
    growing into big trees. We have many people at our
    company who have watched multiple $10 million seeds
    turn into billion dollar businesses. That first-hand
    experience and the culture that has grown up around those
    successes is, in my opinion, a big part of why we can start
    businesses from scratch. The culture demands that these
    new businesses be high potential and that they be
    innovative and differentiated, but it does not demand that
    they be large on the day that they are born.
        I remember how excited we were in 1996 as we
    crossed $10 million in book sales. It wasn’t hard to be
    excited—we had grown to $10 million from zero. Today,
    when a new business inside Amazon grows to $10
    million, the overall company is growing from $10 billion
    to $10.01 billion. It would be easy for the senior
    executives who run our established billion dollar
    businesses to scoff. But they don’t. They watch the
    growth rates of the emerging businesses and send emails
    of congratulations. That’s pretty cool, and we’re proud it’s
    a part of our culture.4
     I opened this chapter with a question: How was it that
Amazon got to cloud computing first and became the largest
provider of web services? Jeff provides the answer in his
letter: it is because of Amazon’s innovative spirit combined
with the patience that comes with long-term thinking. Even
when the business was brand-new and very small, we realized
it had high potential, that it was an area where we could
innovate and differentiate, and we had the patience to stick
with it.
     In July 2002, we launched the very first version of
Amazon Web Services. If the product data XML we had sent
to affiliates a few months earlier was the beta, AWS was the
1.0. It included some search and shopping capabilities and a
full software development kit, and it was available to anyone,
not just affiliates. Also, it was still free. For this one, we did
issue a press release, in which Jeff said:
    We’re putting out a welcome mat for developers—this is
    an important beginning and new direction for us.…
    Developers can now incorporate Amazon.com content
    and features directly onto their own websites. We can’t
    wait to see how they’re going to surprise us.5
    Up until this point Amazon had two sets of customers—
buyers and sellers. Now we had a new customer set—the
software developer.
      After the launch, as we monitored the response, we had
another surprise. Some of our biggest customers were not
affiliates and not outsiders of any kind. They were Amazon
software engineers. They found Amazon Web Services easier
to use than some of our existing internal software tools they
had been working with to build amazon.com. At this point
there was little doubt that web services were going to become
a new way of building things. We just didn’t know how big it
could be or how quickly developers would adopt it. Within a
year, we had a pretty good idea—over 25,000 developers
enrolled in the program6 and were constantly surprising us
with what they built.
    Though this program was called Amazon Web Services, it
bears little resemblance to today’s AWS. In fact, the service
we launched in 2002 was renamed the Amazon Product API
and had a significant limitation—it had to be used to market
Amazon products and therefore was solely focused on
improving the Amazon retail ecosystem.
     There were other projects that also helped us realize how
big web services could be. Also in 2001, we embarked on a
project called the “3-Ring Binder,” which was an attempt to
create and document a set of APIs that would allow partners to
quickly add their product selection to the Amazon site and to
create websites powered by Amazon’s technology, but at their
own URLs, under their control. This project eventually
allowed us to create websites for partners such as Target and
other retailers. Additionally, we developed a program called
Seller Central, which provided web services that Amazon’s
third-party sellers could use to manage their businesses. The
Amazon Associates Product API, Amazon Anywhere, the 3-
Ring Binder, and Seller Central all reinforced our hypothesis
that a seismic shift was happening in the way software was
built.
     In the summer of 2003, just as Web Services was taking
off, I lost my job. Or rather, I switched to a different job. As I
mentioned in the introduction, Jeff asked if I would like to
become his technical advisor—his shadow—an offer I could
not refuse. Andy Jassy had been Jeff’s technical advisor for
the previous 18 months and was ready for a new role. He
could have taken virtually any job in the company, including a
leadership role in any of its largest businesses. Fortunately for
us, he decided to start and lead a new team that would build on
our experiment. Andy and his team envisioned and created a
much more robust set of products that would usher in the era
of cloud computing and become the massive hit that AWS is
today. While the explosive growth of AWS and its
sophisticated suite of product offerings all came after I had
moved on to other projects, it serves as a vivid example of
being Amazonian.
     It’s worth noting that we had competition. Several other
companies were offering web services–based developer
programs at the time. Like the Amazon Product API, their
programs were intended to enhance their own ecosystem. For
example, eBay’s developer API provided developers with
tools to build applications to buy and sell products on eBay.
Google had a search API, which launched the same week as
Amazon Product API. Amazon had a second web services
program that Marketplace sellers could use to manage the
products they sold on Amazon. These programs generated
quite a bit of buzz in the developer community.
     The one thing all these programs had in common was that
their ultimate goal was to have their parties build new software
that would in some way accrue benefit to their core business—
such as Amazon affiliate sales, more eBay transactions, more
Google searches, and more Amazon Marketplace seller
transactions. All of us, leaders and developers from these
companies, were looking at similar data and trends. We ran
into each other at developer conferences, participated on
panels together, and shared customers who were using our
developer programs. We were all swimming in the same
primordial soup. Yet it was Amazon who took the first step in
web services and said, “Why don’t we build a set of tools that
any developer can use to build anything they want, even if it
has nothing to do with our core business?” As mentioned
earlier, it was largely because of the Amazon focus on
invention. Part of the Invent and Simplify leadership principle
states, “As we do new things, we accept that we may be
misunderstood for long periods of time.” Despite skeptics
saying Amazon didn’t belong in this space, we’d experienced
firsthand the enthusiasm of the developer community, and we
doubled down on that enthusiasm.
    There were two additional factors that influenced the
decision to make a bet on web services.

The Primitives Are Known, They Just Haven’t Been Exposed
as Web Services
For several decades, well-established hardware and software
companies had built and sold capable solutions for a well-
known set of problems inherent in building commercial
software—storage (databases used to save and retrieve data),
message queueing, and notifications (the latter two are
different methods computer processes use to communicate
with one another). If a software developer needed to
implement one of these building blocks, they would have to
buy a software license that would typically incur a nontrivial
one-time cost plus yearly maintenance fees for however long
the product was in use. Moreover, they would either have to
buy hardware and run it in their own data center or pay a
partner to do it.
     We didn’t have to invent these building blocks—or
“primitives” as they have been called—we just had to figure
out how to offer them in the cloud as a web service. For
instance, if you want to use Amazon’s S3 storage service, all
you need to do is sign up for a free account and provide a
credit card. After a few lines of code to set up your own
storage area (called provisioning), you can start storing and
retrieving data. You then pay only for what you use, which
means there is no time-consuming vendor-selection process
and no cost negotiation (the list prices of many corporate
software licenses were just the starting point in a negotiation).
And you don’t have to secure computers and a data center to
run your new database. The cloud provider, in this case
Amazon, handles all that.
     I kept my eye on these developments even as I shifted to
being Jeff’s shadow. Jeff and I attended an O’Reilly Emerging
Technology conference shortly after I moved jobs, and we
went to a panel featuring Stewart Butterfield, who co-founded
Flickr, the popular photo-sharing site, and later Slack.
Someone asked Stewart to describe a typical day at Flickr. His
answer was surprising. He said that about half the day was
probably the same as it was for many of the people in the
audience—scrambling to keep their technology platform one
step ahead of the rapid growth of their business. They worked
on scaling their databases, web servers, software, and
hardware. Stewart said they did not spend as much time as he
would like on innovating things that were unique to Flickr.
    After the meeting, Jeff and I had a brief chat about
Stewart’s comments. We’d both noticed the same thing—a
phenomenon that Amazon would later refer to as
“undifferentiated heavy lifting,” that is, the tasks that we could
do for companies that would enable them to focus on what
made them unique. This was an opportunity.

Server-Side Was Easy for Us and Hard for Most Everyone
Else
Another factor that influenced our decision to offer a broader
set of services was that, in building and operating one of the
world’s largest websites, we had acquired a core competency
only a few companies could match. We had the capability to
store massive amounts of data, perform computations on that
data, and then quickly and reliably deliver the results to end
users, be they humans or computers.
     Suppose, for example, that you want to build a service
that stores millions of photos to be searched and queried by
millions of customers. In 2002, that would have been a
reasonably large but very doable project for Amazon. That
pretty much describes, in fact, our Search Inside the Book
capability. For most companies, however, such a project would
have been cost and time prohibitive. But it was clear that more
and more companies would develop or acquire these
capabilities, and they eventually would become an
undifferentiated commodity.
     That is exactly what happened. Today, building the
capability to store and retrieve millions of photos could well
be a homework assignment for a college student taking a
computer science class. In several of the Working Backwards
documents for the early AWS products, the PR/FAQ stated
that we wanted the student in a dorm room to have access to
the same world-class computing infrastructure as any Amazon
software engineer. That powerful metaphor in the PR/FAQ
document really helped crystallize the thoughts and ideas of
the AWS product development teams.
     There were a number of factors that influenced Amazon’s
decision to start the foray into web services that would
ultimately become AWS. We had several proofs of concept in
the Amazon Product API and the Amazon Seller API
demonstrating that the area was worthy of attention. It was
simply a better way to build software than the traditional
methods used at that time. There was a relatively clear
roadmap on what was needed since the software building
blocks were known, but hadn’t yet been offered as web
services. We also knew our unique capabilities would not be
unique for very long, which provided a sense of urgency. (The
first company to offer a robust set of general-purpose web
services wouldn’t be guaranteed to win in the long run, but the
head start sure would help.)
     That sense of urgency is codified in Amazon’s Bias for
Action leadership principle. It states, “Speed matters in
business. Many decisions and actions are reversible and do not
need extensive study. We value calculated risk-taking.” It
wasn’t unusual for a senior leader like Andy Jassy to choose to
start a new business from scratch rather than to assume
leadership of an established business. Just as it wasn’t unusual
for Steve Kessel and Bill to move from Amazon’s then-largest
business to one of its smallest, or for Colin and team to take a
chance with releasing a new but controversial web service.
     We also had some luck. In the 2015 shareholder letter, Jeff
states, “Luck plays an outsized role in every endeavor, and I
can assure you we’ve had a bountiful supply.”7 We were lucky
that it took much longer than we expected for the pre-cloud
incumbents or web tech companies to mobilize and start
offering their own set of cloud services. By the time they
realized the potential of cloud computing, Amazon had a
several-year head start.
                      AWS as It Started
So what happened next? Basically, the first part of the race
consisted of many months of iterating on the Working
Backwards PR/FAQ process and going through the Bar Raiser
process one candidate at a time as fast as we could to start
building out the teams. As usual, we avoided shortcuts. It’s
also notable that only two out of the first set of about a half-
dozen services were runaway successes—Amazon S3 (Simple
Storage Service) and Amazon EC2 (Elastic Compute Cloud).
Jeff and I would meet with Andy and the leaders of these
teams every two weeks, sometimes more often. There was also
a large team that was building out the infrastructure that all
these services would use. This infrastructure consisted of
components such as metering, billing, reporting, and other
shared functions.
     Though the initial roadmap of primitives was relatively
straightforward, what wasn’t so easy was figuring out how to
build them so that they could operate on a scale several orders
of magnitude greater than what we were doing for the Amazon
retail business. There were many thorny technical issues and
some truly astounding engineering work done by the teams to
solve them. A full account is outside the scope of this book,
but to give you an idea, the following is a description of one
key issue we discussed and refined.
     The Working Backwards process is all about starting from
the customer perspective and following a step-by-step process
where you question assumptions relentlessly until you have a
complete understanding of what you want to build. It’s about
seeking truth. Sometimes the Working Backwards process can
uncover some surprising truths. Some companies, in a rush to
get a project to market, ignore that truth and keep building
according to the original plan. In their attachment to the
modest gains of that plan, they motivate the team to pursue it
aggressively, only to realize much later that there was a much
bigger gain to be had if they’d taken the time to question their
own assumptions. The cost of changing course in the PR/FAQ
writing stage is much lower than after you’ve launched and
have an operating business to manage. The Working
Backwards process tends to save you from the expensive
proposition of making a significant course change after you’ve
launched your product. One example that illustrates this point
is an issue that came up with S3.
     In the FAQ there was a simple question that read
something like, “How much does S3 cost?” One of the first
versions of the answer was that S3 would be a tiered monthly
subscription service based on average storage use, with a
possible free tier for small amounts of data. Customers would
choose a monthly subscription rate based on how much data
they typically needed to store—Simple Storage Service with
simple pricing. We hadn’t worked out the exact details of the
tiers and the prices for each tier, but you don’t have to do that
in early iterations of the Working Backwards process. The
engineering team was ready to move on to the next question.
     Except that day we never got to the next question. We
kept discussing this question. We really did not know how
developers would use S3 when it launched. Would they store
mostly large objects with low retrieval rates? Small objects
with high retrieval rates? How often would updates happen
versus reads? How many customers would need simple
storage (can easily be re-created, stored in only one location,
not a big deal if you lose it) and how many would need
complex storage (bank records, stored in multiple locations, a
very big deal if you lose it)? All those factors were unknown
yet could meaningfully impact our costs. Since we didn’t
know how developers would use S3, was there a way to
structure our pricing so that no matter how it was used, we
could ensure that it would be affordable to our customers and
to Amazon?
     Thus, the discussion moved away from a tiered
subscription pricing strategy and toward a cost-following
strategy. “Cost following” means that your pricing model is
driven primarily by your costs, which are then passed on to
your customer. This is what construction companies use,
because building your customer’s gazebo out of redwood will
cost you a lot more than building it out of pine. If we were to
use a cost-following strategy, we’d be sacrificing the
simplicity of subscription pricing, but both our customers and
Amazon would benefit. With cost following, whatever the
developer did with S3, they would use it in a way that would
meet their requirements, and they would strive to minimize
their cost and, therefore, our cost too. There would be no
gaming of the system, and we wouldn’t have to estimate how
the mythical average customer would use S3 to set our prices.*
     Would the most important cost drivers for S3 be the cost
of storing data on the disk? The bandwidth costs of moving the
data? The number of transactions? Electrical power? We
finally settled on storage and bandwidth. As we discovered
after S3 launched, our prediction was a little off. As Werner
Vogels, the CTO of AWS, puts it,
    An example in the early days where we did not know the
    resources required to serve certain usage patterns was
    with S3: We had assumed that the storage and bandwidth
    were the resources we should charge for; after running for
    a while, we realized that the number of requests was an
    equally important resource. If customers have many tiny
    files, then storage and bandwidth don’t amount to much
    even if they are making millions of requests. We had to
    adjust our model to account for all the dimensions of
    resource usage so that AWS could be a sustainable
    business.8
     However, crucially, our decision to use the cost-following
strategy allowed us to correct our mistake and adjust our
pricing relatively easily. Having already determined in our
PR/FAQ process what all the possible cost drivers for the
service would be, we could now adjust our pricing to conform
to what they actually were. The adjustment would have been
much larger and more costly if we’d stayed with our original
idea of subscription pricing.
    Amazon was just starting to use the Working Backwards
process in those days when we were developing this early
version of AWS. And many teams were frustrated by how
slow it was to do things this way. The software engineers in
the PR/FAQ meeting where we discussed pricing were getting
antsy. One of them pulled me aside afterward and said, “We’re
software engineers, not pricing specialists with MBAs. We
want to write software, not more Word documents.”
Painstakingly following the Working Backwards process
meant we didn’t even get to the rest of the PR/FAQ document
in that meeting. And it meant the engineers now had to do a
bunch of research, testing, and measurement on the relative
costs of the service before the next meeting. I asked them to
trust the process even though it seemed painful in the moment.
     Jeff was insistent that we follow the process until we
uncovered the truth and were crystal clear on what we were
trying to build. He said that with the volume of scale we
wanted to achieve, unless the service was built right with the
initial release, teams would spend all their time keeping the
system running and would not be able to develop any new
features. And as it turns out, if you take a look at the first
PR/FAQ for any of these services and compare them to the
PR/FAQ at launch, they all evolved quite a bit for the better.
     You can’t wind the clock back, replay the experiment, and
see what would have happened if we had built and launched
these services quickly without knowing some of the truths we
discovered using Working Backwards. However, though there
were still some post-launch maintenance issues and outages,
the performance and rapid customer adoption speak for
themselves. Based on my experience of going through the
Working Backwards process with Jeff for well over a dozen
different product teams across AWS, Digital, and other
services, I can say confidently that the extra time we spent
slowing down to uncover the necessary truths was ultimately a
faster path to a large and successful business. The results
speak for themselves. Amazon has large viable digital devices
and media businesses. And, as mentioned in the introduction,
AWS reached the $10 billion annual revenue milestone faster
than Amazon the online retailer.
The launch of this early version of AWS is a particularly good
case study of some of the fundamental Amazonian principles
and processes. Bias for Action is an important leadership
principle at Amazon, and with AWS we were certainly under
time pressure to launch this product before our competitors
did. But Bias for Action does not obviate the need for the
painstaking aspects of the Working Backwards process. We
did not allow ourselves to be so driven by what our
competitors might do that we would launch a product without
first having thought very carefully about how our customers
would use it and benefit from it. To put it another way,
Working Backwards was the process that enabled us to put
into action the principle of Customer Obsession.
      AWS today is much, much bigger and quite different from
the version I worked on in the early 2000s, thanks to the
visionary work of AWS CEO Andy Jassy and his team. But
that is exactly what makes AWS so Amazonian. What began
as a little experiment of sending out product data XML to our
affiliates has grown into one of the major divisions of the
Amazon business, one that brought in $35 billion in revenue in
2019. In recognizing the potential of this little seed to become
the mighty oak of AWS, Jeff and others at Amazon embodied
the Amazonian principles of Ownership, Invent and Simplify,
and Think Big.
Conclusion
Being Amazonian Beyond Amazon
    Being Amazonian in your business. Being Amazonian means having to
    change habits and ways of doing things, deferring gratification, and
    persisting through challenging times, but also reaping distinct rewards. How
    to start being Amazonian wherever you are.




Both of us learned a great deal at Amazon. It was a defining
period in our careers. And we’ve both since moved on to other
ventures. But being Amazonian remains part of our DNA, and
it always will. It affects how we think, make decisions, act,
and view business and the world at large.
     What’s most fascinating to us, and the reason we have
written this book, is that the elements of being Amazonian are
so applicable to other companies, businesses, industries, and
endeavors—as well as endeavors outside business, such as
not-for-profit or community organizations. Defining the basics
of the culture, articulating leadership principles, regularizing
essential practices—Bar Raiser hiring, teams with single-
threaded leaders, written narratives, Working Backwards,
focusing on input metrics—all these things have proved to be
essential to us in other endeavors. Indeed, we can’t imagine
doing business without them.
     It is true that the Amazonian Day One mentality does not
always produce results as intended. Some Amazonians go on
to leadership roles in other companies and try to implement
Amazonian practices without success. It may be that the
timing isn’t right, or that the senior-most executive, usually the
CEO, does not support the approach. Far more often, however,
the “Amazon Way” has been successfully adopted by other
organizations. And, as we’ve said, it is wonderfully fractal,
applicable at any scale and scope.
    We do not suggest that becoming Amazonian is easy—for
an entire organization or for the individuals within it. Working
in separable, single-threaded teams can be intense, and the
organization has to be constructed in a way that allows for
autonomy. The Working Backwards process requires the
individual to present ideas in a narrative form and to accept the
critique of anyone in the room. Focusing on input metrics is
unfamiliar to those schooled in traditional evaluation methods.
Making a commitment to long-term “return on work”
investment—through equity ownership—is hardly the norm
for Western companies that link compensation to the
achievement of short-term goals.
     The rewards, however, are clear and distinct for both the
company and the person. Amazon is clear up front about
seeking people who obsess over the customer experience and
who value long-term success and continuous innovation over
making a quick buck or earning a fancy title. It offers a context
that supports risk-taking and openness to ideas from people at
any level of the business; it also provides the fulfillment that
comes from taking on difficult challenges under daunting time
constraints and wrangling them to the best outcome possible.
Most often, this brings superior results for the company.
     Even when a project does not achieve its goals or is
deemed a failure, if the effort was admirable and adherent to
Amazon practices and principles, the result for the individual
is neither dismissal nor shame. Failure is almost always
understood as the failure of a group, a process, a system, as
much as that of a single person—many people have been
involved, made comments, shaped the idea, and given
approvals along the way. For the company, then, failure is
typically viewed as an experiment from which a great deal can
be learned that can lead to change and improvement. Very
often, failure is temporary and eventually gives birth to
success.
    As we personally experienced it, being Amazonian can
bring the satisfaction, even pride, that comes with creating
products and services that change an industry, deliver
exceptional customer experiences, and—as we hope this book
can do—even make a contribution to management practice.
The questions that typically follow a presentation of the ideas
in this book are, “How do I start? Where do I start? What do I
actually do to bring some of the aspects of being Amazonian
into my business?”
    Here are a few suggestions:

     Ban PowerPoint as a tool to discuss complicated topics
     and start using six-page narratives and PR/FAQ
     documents in your leadership team meetings. This can
     be implemented almost instantly. There will be pushback
     and grumbling, but we’ve found it produces results
     swiftly, and eventually your leaders will say to
     themselves, “We can never go back to the old way.”
     Establish the Bar Raiser hiring process. This approach
     is no longer unique to Amazon and we have seen it work
     in many companies. It too can be established relatively
     quickly, once a training process is in place. It also
     delivers short-term results by improving the quality of
     the process and enabling learning for everyone involved
     in the loop. It should reduce the number of poor hires
     and, in the long run, improve the overall quality of
     thinking and performance in each team, and in the
     company as a whole.
     Focus on controllable input metrics. Amazon is
     relentless about identifying metrics that can be
     controlled and have the greatest impact on outputs such
     as free cash flow per share. This is not an easy process,
     because it requires patient trial and error as you seek the
     input metrics that best allow you to assume control of
     your desired results. Note too that this is not an
     argument for abandoning output metrics. Amazon does
     care a great deal about free cash flow per share.
     Move to an organizational structure that accommodates
     autonomous teams with single-threaded leaders. As
     noted in chapter three, this takes time and requires
     careful management, as it invariably raises questions
     about authority and power, jurisdiction, and “turf.”
     You’ll also have to be on the lookout for dependencies
     and roadblocks that are preventing autonomy in your
     organization. But it can be done. Start with your product
     development group, and then see what other areas, if
     any, work better in teams.
     Revise the compensation structure for leaders so that it
     encourages long-term commitment and long-term
     decision-making. Avoid making too many exceptions for
     “special cases.” Make sure that leaders in all areas of the
     company are compensated with the same basic
     approach.
     Articulate the core elements of the company’s culture, as
     Amazon did with long-term thinking, customer
     obsession, eagerness to invent, and operational
     excellence. Then build these into every process and
     discussion. Do not assume that simply stating them and
     displaying them will have any significant effect.
     Define a set of leadership principles. These must be
     developed with participation from many contributors.
     Don’t assign the task to a single group or outsource it to
     a consultant or service provider. Do it yourselves. Hash
     out the details. Revisit the principles from time to time
     and revise if and as necessary. Then, as with the aspects
     of the culture, bring the principles into every process,
     from hiring to product development.
     Depict your flywheel. What are the drivers of growth for
     your company? Make a picture of them that shows how
     they act upon the flywheel. Evaluate everything you do
     in light of its positive or negative effect on one or more
     drivers of the flywheel.

     Finally, keep in mind what we said at the beginning: we
don’t claim that the Amazon approach is the only right one.
Many successful, high-performing companies operate
differently than Amazon does. But, then again, there aren’t
many companies that have achieved the level of growth, the
record of invention, the ability to move into new businesses
beyond the core, and the amount of influence that Amazon
has. So, at the very least, it’s worth considering how being
Amazonian might benefit your company and, even more
important, your company’s customers.
If you would like to learn more about
how to apply the Amazon processes and
principles and get your organization to
start working backwards, visit our
website                              at
www.workingbackwards.com.
Appendix A
Interview Feedback Examples
Below are examples of weak and strong feedback. Note how the weak feedback
focuses extensively on the candidate’s work experience, passion, and strategic
thinking (good that the interviewer asked about thinking) but doesn’t give specific
examples of actual work the candidate has accomplished. (In the strong feedback
example, the candidate’s answer about his actual work proved to be the reason we
didn’t hire him.) There is also no verbatim Q&A—we don’t know what questions
the interviewer asked or what the candidate’s answers were. There is no data from
the interview that a hiring manager can use to assess the candidate.
   Read the second example of feedback to see how much easier it is to form your
own opinion of the candidate based on the questions and answers. The feedback is a
combination of objective data and subjective analysis.
Weak Feedback
  I am inclined to hire Joe for a product management position on our team. He
  has a solid background owning and driving strategy for Red Corp. and two
  other relevant companies. He came across as having a good understanding of
  the unique challenges that face our space, and his experience would be an asset
  to our company as we craft the various ways in which to enter this market
  segment. In discussing the challenges that face our company, he was articulate
  and demonstrated a firm grasp on the ways that our company should enter a
  market segment that is quickly evolving. His experience at Red Corp. will be
  useful in the context of evaluating/analyzing companies to partner with or
  acquire to further our strategy. I liked his demonstrated passion for the media
  industry throughout his career.
Good Feedback
  I interviewed Joe both for his biz dev abilities and his product management
  skills. I was left flat on both. I thought his strategic thinking and business
  judgment were weak and that his examples from work lacked specificity as to
  his own contributions—too much about “what we did” as opposed to “what I
  did”—too hard to get him to clearly articulate his own contributions. He was a
  passenger, not a driver.
  Q: Why do you want to work for our company?
  A: You’re focused on customer experience. The trajectory of the company is
     favorable. I like the idea of getting involved while your company is this size
     and at this stage of growth.
 Okay, I guess this answer is reasonable, but the reasoning didn’t seem
 particularly solid or compelling.
  Q: What is your most significant professional accomplishment?
  A: Biz dev deal that we did with Blue Corp. while I was at Red Corp. While I
     was too junior to lead the strategy elements for the deal, the strategic output
     of the deal was really big for us—brought several other players like
     Yellow.com to our doorstep to do similar deals.
  Q: So what was your role?
  A: I was one of three members of the deal team; me, the VP of Product
     Development, and a guy from legal. My role was relationship manager, so
     when business owners had specific needs, they would bring them to me and I
     would execute them with Blue Corp.
  Q: So what was your big accomplishment in this deal?
  A: It was my job on this deal to work with the biz dev guy at Blue Corp. to turn
     our needs for the deal into a contract. The contract was two hundred pages
     long.
 While I probed multiple times here, he didn’t give me any evidence of
 something substantial that he had personally done on this deal. He was proud of
 the strategic import of the deal, but admitted at the outset that he had nothing to
 do with setting deal strategy. I was then looking for him to give me specific
 evidence of tough hurdles or negotiation tactics that he had employed in
 cranking out this huge agreement (or at least evidence of really hard work), but
 he didn’t volunteer anything. I was psyched when he first started to tell me about
 this, thinking that he has great experience in putting together big deals, but it
 sounded like the VP and legal team members did all the driving.
  Q: If you could add or change anything about our website to improve customer
     experience, what would it be and why?
  A: I would make Category X more prominent. It is buried on the site today and
     people don’t know that it’s available.
  Q: Really? Why do you think it is strategically important for us to surface
     Category X more prominently?
  A: Well actually, Category Y is probably a better example of something that I
     would add to the website and make more prominent.
Q: Okay, so then why should we make Category Y more prominent? Of all the
   products we sell, why is that one strategically important to surface?
A: Because competitor A is running away with the business and competitor B is
   in the business now too, and because it is something customers would want
   to buy from us.
Q: Okay, forget about these categories for a minute, what should we change in
   our website with respect to Category Z?
A: I would create a daily goods checklist that lets people buy goods like Z1,
   which they need regularly, and which we would ship to them at regular
   intervals before they run out. This would save people a trip to Competitor C.
He failed miserably on this question. Not only did he waffle on his original
answer, but he showed really poor innovation and strategic thinking here by
honing in on smaller concepts that failed to tie back to big meaty customer
experience or competitive issues (selection, price, customer experience).
Appendix B
Sample Narrative Tenets and FAQs
Dave Glick, a former Amazon VP, was the first person to use tenets in the six-
pager. Dave had a series of narrative review meetings with Jeff that did not go well.
Dave said,
   We had gotten through those bad meetings and to a place where we could have
   a discussion about our strategy. At the end of the discussion, we had agreement
   on the strategy, and we summarized it in five bullet points. Jeff said, “You
   should write these down and put them at the top of your document every month,
   so we remember what we decided last time.” And thus, tenets were born. The
   next month I showed up with my document with the tenets front and center. It
   helped us all reload the cache, and made the rest of the meeting productive
   since we didn’t have to rehash our previous decisions.1
    One of the many benefits tenets can bring is strong alignment among everyone
involved. They also provide a set of guiding principles to rely on to help with
decision-making. Jeff liked the tenets so much that he asked other teams to
incorporate them into their narratives. Formulating a tenet is difficult, and subtle
nuances of meaning can sometimes have a large downstream impact on a project.
    Tenets help organizations make hard choices and trade-offs. A tenet breaks the
tie between two benefits, values, or outcomes where there is a natural tension
between them. It is often the case that individuals or departments find themselves in
conflict over the two outcomes because there is a legitimate argument for both
outcomes. A simple example is speed vs. quality. Obviously both are desirable, and
certain teams or individuals may be more focused on speed while others are more
focused on quality.
Sample Tenets
Simple example tenet (this is not an Amazon tenet): Speed and quality are always
important, but, when forced to make a choice between the two, we will always
prioritize quality.
    In this tenet, either answer (speed or quality) is valid. When the leadership team
of your company aligns on a tenet like this one, refers to it consistently in meetings,
and insists that it appear in relevant six-pagers, you will be amazed by how
effective this is in aligning and enabling your organization.
    Amazon had been working with tenets before we adopted the six-pager
narrative approach. Jeff, for example, often discussed the following tenet with
various internal audiences.
Tenet: We don’t make money when we sell things. We make money when we help
customers make purchase decisions.2
    This guided some challenging and controversial decisions in Amazon’s early
days, one of which was about product reviews posted on our website. Negative
reviews could potentially discourage a customer from buying a product and thus
reduce revenue. So, if we are in the business to make money, why would we post
negative reviews? But the tenet states that we make money not by selling things,
but by helping customers make purchase decisions. The tenet instantly makes our
obligation obvious. The customer needs information, positive and negative, to make
an informed decision. We continued to post negative customer reviews.
Tenet: When forced to choose between building something that’s convenient for
customers or convenient for ourselves, we’ll choose the former.
    Seems like an obvious one, but companies don’t always follow this tenet.
Packaging, for example. Have you ever experienced the joy of opening a box that
contains that product you’ve desperately been waiting for, only to have your joy
turn to despair because the product is encased in a clamshell container of military-
grade plastic? That packaging was most definitely created for the convenience of
the company—easier to ship, easier to display in a store, harder for customers to
steal.
     Before we articulated this tenet, Amazon made this very mistake. We developed
packaging designed to make it cheap and easy to wrap our books and sturdy enough
to prevent damage in shipping. In 1999, Jeff received an email from an elderly
woman who wrote that she loved Amazon’s service, except for one problem: she
had to wait for her nephew to come over to break through the packaging.3 After
receiving that email, Jeff asked the team to invent a new design that would have all
the characteristics the company needed and that would also be easy for customers
to open. Amazon extended that concept ten years later to other product lines with
its Frustration-Free Packaging Initiative.4
Tenet: We don’t let defects travel downstream. When we notice a defect, we will
not rely on good intentions to solve the problem. We’ll invent and build systematic
methods to eliminate that defect.
    This tenet is useful in any continuous improvement environment such as the
fulfillment centers and the customer service operation. In order to prevent a defect
from traveling downstream, you may need to build systems to detect and measure
the defect and create a feedback loop to make sure the defect doesn’t happen again.
The problem will not be solved by encouraging people to try harder or relying on
the good intentions of customer service people. The heartfelt “I’m sorry you had
this problem, we will try harder to meet your needs in the future” does not result in
the improvement of a flawed system.
    One well-known defect in a fulfillment center is the “switcheroo”—when the
actual weight of a package ready for loading onto a delivery truck does not match
the expected weight of the products that should be in the box (plus the weight of the
packaging). This is an indication that something is wrong with the order—maybe
the wrong item was packed or the order is incomplete. When the weights don’t
match, the package is flagged and a person has to open it and inspect what’s inside.
This sounds pretty simple, but, in aggregate, it’s a massive endeavor. You have to
have precise data on the weight of tens of millions of items from millions of
manufacturers, merchants, and sellers. Your weighing scales have to be extremely
accurate, or they may detect a mismatch when there isn’t one.
    But what happens if a package goes out with the defect undetected? The
customer may get something different from what was ordered. This does not make
for a good customer experience.
    The tenet says that we will “eliminate the defect.” That’s an aggressive goal,
and it cannot be achieved immediately. It serves as a powerful advocate for the
customer, and it has led to the development of many systems and processes to
prevent and eliminate defects. As we’ve described, one of the best-known of these
processes is the Andon Cord, which was adapted from the Toyota Production
System: factory workers can pull a physical cord to halt the assembly line when
they spot a defect. At Amazon, the customer service people have a virtual cord—
actually a button—that they can push when a defect is noticed. It instantly prevents
Amazon from selling any more of the affected product until the customer issue is
resolved.
    This tenet appeared in so many narratives and was so useful in advocating for
the customer that Amazon incorporated it into the Leadership Principles as Insist on
the Highest Standards.
Sample FAQs
An FAQ is a good way to tee up issues for discussion or highlight important points
or risks in your argument. Such FAQs allow the author to take control over the
discussion and steer it to productive areas for dialogue. An honest, objective, and
nonemotional tone tends to work best when answering these questions. There’s no
point in sugarcoating things, and it helps to state the tough issues up front.
Amazon’s Earn Trust leadership principle states, “Leaders listen attentively, speak
candidly, and treat others respectfully. They are vocally self-critical, even when
doing so is awkward or embarrassing. Leaders do not believe their or their team’s
body odor smells of perfume. They benchmark themselves and their teams against
the best.” Here are some FAQs that we have found useful:
What were the biggest mistakes we have made last period, and what have we
learned from them?
What are the key inputs for this business?
What is the single biggest thing we can do to move the needle in this business,
and how will we organize to do just that?
What are the top reasons we should not do what we’re proposing today?
When push comes to shove, what are the things we won’t compromise on?
What’s hard about the problem we are trying to solve?
If our team had X more people or Y more dollars, how would we deploy those
resources?
What are the top three new initiatives, products, or experiments our team has
launched in the past X months, and what did we learn from them?
What dependencies do we have in our area today over which we wish we had
control?
Appendix C
Timeline of Events in the Book
1998
Colin joins Amazon
1999
Bill joins Amazon
Bar Raiser program launched
2001
Formal Weekly Business Review (WBR) established
2002
Amazon Product API launches
First two-pizza teams created
2003
Colin starts as Jeff’s shadow
Amazon Web Services (AWS) group is formed
2004
Working Backwards PR/FAQ process formalized
Use of PowerPoint at S-Team meetings is banned (June 9)
Digital Media organization formed (Bill owns business team)
First version of Amazon Leadership Principles distributed to company
2005
Amazon Prime launch (February 2)
Colin ends role as Jeff’s shadow to become COO of IMDb (July)
2006
AWS Simple Storage Service (S3) launch (March 14)
AWS Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2) Public Beta launch (August 25)
Unbox public launch (September 7)
Fulfillment by Amazon launch (September 19)
2007
Kindle launch (November 9)
2008
Amazon Video On Demand launch (September)
2011
Prime Video launch and rebranding (February)
Acknowledgments


This book would not have been possible without the help of
many Amazonians past and present who were so generous
with their time, allowing us to interview them or agreeing to
review drafts of the manuscript. Without them we would have
never been able to get all the facts and stories straight. Our
thanks to Robin Andrulevich, Felix Anthony, Charlie Bell,
Jason Child, Cem Sibay, Rick Dalzell, Ian Freed, Mike
George, Dave Glick, Drew Herdener, Cameron Janes, Steve
Kessel, Jason Kilar, Tom Killalea, Jonathan Leblang, Chris
North, Laura Orvidas, Angie Quennell, Diego Piacentini, Kim
Rachmeler, Vijay Ravindran, Neil Roseman, Dave Schappell,
Jonathan Shakes, Joel Spiegel, Tom Szkutak, Sean Vegeler,
John Vlastelica, Charlie Ward, Eugene Wei, and Gregg Zehr.
     In addition to the list of Amazonians above, we would
like to thank and acknowledge all the Amazonians who we
worked with during our combined 27 years with the company.
Working long, hard, and smart with all of you challenged and
stretched us in ways that are hard to put in words. You all
brought a level of smarts, passion, energy, and electricity that
made Amazon so special.
    We would like to offer a special thank-you to Jeff Bezos.
The opportunity to work alongside Jeff was a transformative
experience for both of us, not to mention a highlight of our
careers.
    We wish to acknowledge many others who read the
manuscript and provided us with valuable feedback from an
unbiased (non-Amazonian) perspective, including Joe
Belfiore, Kristina Belfiore, Patti Brooke, Ed Clary, Roger
Egan, Brian Fleming, Robert Goldbaum, Danny Limanseta,
Jan Miksovsky, Sui Riu Quek, Brian Richter, Vikram Rupani,
Marni Seneker, Marcus Swanepoel, John Tippett, and Jon
Walton.
     At St. Martin’s Press/Macmillan, we owe thanks to Alan
Bradshaw and Ryan Masteller, who copyedited the book.
Jonathan Bush created a cover design that captured the essence
of our book. Assistant Editor Alice Pfeifer kept us on task and
helped with innumerable details large and small. Associate
Publisher Laura Clark understood our book from the first
meeting and championed it every step of the way. Publicist
Gabi Gantz helped us hone our pitch and bring the book out to
the world. And Joe Brosnan and Mac Nicholas were crucial to
all marketing efforts.
    As first-time authors we were fortunate to have Tim
Bartlett as our editor. Tim was always generous with his time.
He gave us valuable guidance and challenged us to think about
the book in new ways. He scoured every sentence in the
manuscript to help us shape it into what you are reading today.
     To our agent, Howard Yoon, who patiently coached us
through the process, beginning with the new experience of
writing our first book. As rookie authors, we made a lot of
mistakes in the beginning of this project. Howard engaged
with us in countless discussions and debates on the central
theme and architecture of the book. He also served as our part-
time writing instructor and guide to the world of publishing
from the author side of the fence.
     Thanks to Sean Silcoff for helping us with our book
proposal. We didn’t even know we needed one when this
project started. Many thanks to our writing partners John
Butman, Matthew Sharpe, and Tom Schonhoff, who helped us
transform our sometimes balky sentences, paragraphs, and
chapters into what we hope is an enjoyable and cogent read.
John, though you won’t get to see the final product, your
wisdom and song are present throughout the book. Matt,
thanks for jumping in at the last minute and helping us. We
were amazed how quickly you got up to speed on the material
and improved the book. Tom, thanks for the many, many
patient hours you spent listening to our grandiose plans for
each chapter and providing keen insights on how to turn them
into a coherent message. You were always willing to roll up
your sleeves and do whatever it took to produce a polished
final product.
     We would like to acknowledge our families. We love you
all and you were a constant source of feedback and inspiration.
To our children, Phoebe, Finn, Evan, and Maddox: your
curiosity and insightful questions forced us to hone our
message until it was concise and clear. And thanks for letting
us use more than our fair share of the family computer at the
expense of your Minecraft time. A special thanks to our
parents, George and Cicely, Betty and Bill Sr. We would not
be where we are today without your constant love and support
along the way. You’ve been telling us since we were young
that we could make a difference in the world and could do
anything if we put our minds to it. Your support is one of the
main reasons why it was not a big leap for us to attempt
something as crazy as writing our first book thirty years into
our careers. To Colin’s sister, Jessica, who sadly left this world
all too soon. You are my hero. Your compassion, selflessness,
and determination to help others in need are awe inspiring.
The memory of your smile and laugh still brightens my day
whenever I need an extra boost. And finally, to Colin’s wife,
Sarah, and Bill’s wife, Lynn. Thanks for your love,
encouragement, and all the sacrifices you made throughout
this journey. We have been fortunate in many ways, none more
so than having you as partners for life.
Notes
Introduction
1   “Surf’s Up,” Forbes, July 26, 1998,
    https://www.forbes.com/forbes/1998/0727/6202106a.html#71126bc93e25
    (accessed June 2, 2020).
2   Jeff Bezos, “Letter to Shareholders,” 2010,
    https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1018724/000119312511110797/dex99
    1.htm.
3   Jeff Bezos, “Letter to Shareholders,” 2015,
    https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1018724/000119312516530910/d168
    744dex991.htm.
4   Ibid.
Chapter 1: Building Blocks
1   Kif Leswing and Isobel Asher Hamilton, “‘Feels Like Yesterday’: Jeff Bezos
    Reposted Amazon’s First Job Listing in a Throwback to 25 Years Ago,”
    Business Insider, August 23, 2019, https://www.businessinsider.com/amazon-
    first-job-listing-posted-by-jeff-bezos-24-years-ago-2018-8.
2   Jeff Bezos, “Letter to Shareholders,” April 2013,
    https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1018724/000119312513151836/d511
    111dex991.htm.
3   876,800 in Q2 2020 per the quarterly earnings announcement at
    https://ir.aboutamazon.com/news-release/news-release-
    details/2020/Amazon.com-Announces-Second-Quarter-Results/default.aspx.
4   Jeff Bezos, “Letter to Shareholders,” 2015,
    https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1018724/000119312516530910/d168
    744dex991.htm.
5   “Leadership Principles,” Amazon Jobs, https://www.amazon.jobs/en/principles
    (accessed May 19, 2019).
6 About Amazon Staff, “Our Leadership Principles,” Working at Amazon,
  https://www.aboutamazon.com/working-at-amazon/our-leadership-principles
  (accessed June 2, 2020).
Chapter 2: Hiring
1 Team Sequoia, “Recruit Engineers in Less Time,” Sequoia,
  https://www.sequoiacap.com/article/recruit-engineers-in-less-time/ (accessed
  May 19, 2019).
2   Brent Gleeson, “The 1 Thing All Great Bosses Think About During Job
    Interviews,” Inc., March 29, 2017, https://www.inc.com/brent-gleeson/how-
    important-is-culture-fit-for-employee-retention.html (accessed May 19, 2019).
Chapter 3: Organizing
1   Jeff Dyer and Hal Gregersen, “How Does Amazon Stay at Day One?” Forbes,
    August 8, 2017, https://www.forbes.com/sites/innovatorsdna/2017/08/08/how-
    does-amazon-stay-at-day-one/#efef8657e4da.
2   Statistics derived from Amazon public financial statements 1997 and 2001,
    https://press.aboutamazon.com/news-releases/news-release-details/amazoncom-
    announces-financial-results-fourth-quarter-and-1997;
    https://press.aboutamazon.com/news-releases/news-release-details/amazoncom-
    announces-4th-quarter-profit-exceeds-sales-and-profit.
3   Jim Gray, “A Conversation with Werner Vogels,” acmqueue 4, no. 4 (June 30,
    2006): https://queue.acm.org/detail.cfm?id=1142065.
4 Tom Killalea, “Velocity in Software Engineering,” acmqueue 17, no. 3 (July 29,
  2019): https://queue.acm.org/detail.cfm?id=3352692.
5   Jeff Bezos, “Letter to Shareholders,” 2016, Day One,
    https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1018724/000119312517120198/d373
    368dex991.htm.
6   Dyer and Gregersen, “How Does Amazon Stay at Day One?”
7   Jeff Bezos, “Letter to Shareholders,” 2011,
    https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1018724/000119312512161812/d329
    990dex991.htm.
8 Taylor Soper, “Leadership Advice: How Amazon Maintains Focus While
  Competing in So Many Industries at Once,” Geek Wire, July 18, 2017,
  https://www.geekwire.com/2017/leadership-advice-amazon-keeps-managers-
  focused-competing-many-industries/.
Chapter 4: Communicating
1   Edward R. Tufte, “The Cognitive Style of PowerPoint: Pitching Out Corrupts
    Within,” https://www.edwardtufte.com/tufte/powerpoint (accessed May 19,
    2019).
2 The text is taken from a redacted version of the email that Colin saw some 14
  years later, when advising another company. Madeline Stone, “A 2004 Email
  from Jeff Bezos Explains Why PowerPoint Presentations Aren’t Allowed at
  Amazon,” Business Insider, July 28, 2015,
  https://www.businessinsider.com/jeff-bezos-email-against-powerpoint-
  presentations-2015-7 (accessed May 19, 2019).
3   Ibid.
Chapter 6: Metrics
1   “What Is Six Sigma?” https://www.whatissixsigma.net/what-is-six-sigma/.
2   Donald J. Wheeler, Understanding Variation: The Key to Managing Chaos
    (Knoxville, TN: SPC Press, 2000), 13.
3   XMR or individual/moving-range charts are a type of control chart used to
    monitor process quality and the limits of variability. See more at
    https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Control_chart.
Introduction to Part Two
1   Jeff Bezos, “Letter to Shareholders,” 2015,
    https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1018724/000119312516530910/d168
    744dex991.htm.
2   Jeff Bezos, “Letter to Shareholders,” 2008,
    https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1018724/000119312509081096/dex9
    91.htm.
3   “Introducing Fire, the First Smartphone Designed by Amazon,” press release,
    Amazon press center, June 18, 2014, https://press.aboutamazon.com/news-
    releases/news-release-details/introducing-fire-first-smartphone-designed-
    amazon.
4 Washington Post Live, “Jeff Bezos Wants to See an Entrepreneurial Explosion
  in Space,” Washington Post, May 20, 2016,
  https://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/post-live/wp/2016/04/07/meet-amazon-
  president-jeff-bezos/.
5   Jeff Bezos, “Letter to Shareholders,” 1999,
    https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1018724/000119312519103013/d727
    605dex991.htm.
Chapter 7: Kindle
1   “Amazon.com Announces Record Free Cash Flow Fueled by Lower Prices and
    Year-Round Free Shipping,” press release, Amazon press center, January 27,
    2004, https://press.aboutamazon.com/news-releases/news-release-
    details/amazoncom-announces-record-free-cash-flow-fueled-lower-prices.
2   E Ink technology was commercialized by the E Ink Corporation, co-founded in
    1997 by MIT undergraduates J. D. Albert and Barrett Comiskey, MIT Media
    Lab professor Joseph Jacobson, Jerome Rubin, and Russ Wilcox.
3   “Introducing Amazon Kindle,” press release, Amazon press center, November
    19, 2007, https://press.aboutamazon.com/news-releases/news-release-
    details/introducing-amazon-kindle/ (accessed May 19, 2019).
4   Jesus Diaz, “Amazon Kindle vs Sony Reader Bitchfight,” Gizmodo, November
    19, 2007, https://gizmodo.com/amazon-kindle-vs-sony-reader-bitchfight-
    324481 (accessed May 19, 2019).
5   Rick Munarriz, “Oprah Saves Amazon,” Motley Fool, October 27, 2008,
    https://www.fool.com/investing/general/2008/10/27/oprah-saves-amazon.aspx
    (accessed June 30, 2020).
Chapter 8: Prime
1   “Amazon.com Announces 76% Free Cash Flow Growth and 29% Sales Growth
    —Expects Record Holiday Season with Expanded Selection, Lower Prices, and
    Free Shipping,” press release, Amazon press center, October 21, 2004,
    https://press.aboutamazon.com/news-releases/news-release-details/amazoncom-
    announces-76-free-cash-flow-growth-and-29-sales-growth.
2 Amazon shipping rates:
  https://web.archive.org/web/20050105085224/http://www.amazon.com:80/exec
  /obidos/tg/browse/-/468636.
3   Colin Bryar, interview with Charlie Ward, August 12, 2019.
4   Jason Del Rey, “The Making of Amazon Prime, the Internet’s Most Successful
    and Devastating Membership Program,” Vox, May 3, 2019,
    https://www.vox.com/recode/2019/5/3/18511544/amazon-prime-oral-history-
    jeff-bezos-one-day-shipping.
5   Jeff Bezos, “Letter to Shareholders,” 2018,
    https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1018724/000119312518121161/d456
    916dex991.htm.
Chapter 9: Prime Video
1 The word “Instant” was dropped in 2015.
2   Rob Beschizza, “Amazon Unbox on TiVo Goes Live,” Wired, March 7, 2007,
    https://www.wired.com/2007/03/amazon-unbox-on/.
3 Tim Arango, “Time Warner Views Netflix as a Fading Star,” New York Times,
  December 12, 2010,
  https://www.nytimes.com/2010/12/13/business/media/13bewkes.html (accessed
  July 1, 2020).
4   Mike Boas, “The Forgotten History of Amazon Video,” Medium, March 14,
    2018, https://medium.com/@mikeboas/the-forgotten-history-of-amazon-video-
    c030cba8cf29.
5   Paul Thurrott, “Roku Now Has 27 Million Active Users,” Thurrott, January 7,
    2019, https://www.thurrott.com/music-videos/197204/roku-now-has-27-
    million-active-users.
6   Jeff Bezos, “Letter to Shareholders,” 2012,
    https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1018724/000119312513151836/d511
    111dex991.htm.
7   “Amazon Fire Tablet,” Wikipedia,
    https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Amazon_Fire_tablet (accessed June 30, 2020).
Chapter 10: AWS
1   “What Is Cloud Computing?” AWS, https://aws.amazon.com/what-is-cloud-
    computing/.
2   Jeff Bezos, “Letter to Shareholders,” 2017, Day One, April 18, 2018,
    https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1018724/000119312518121161/d456
    916dex991.htm.
3   Jeff Barr, “My First 12 Years at Amazon.com,” Jeff Barr’s Blog, August 19,
    2014, http://jeff-barr.com/2014/08/19/my-first-12-years-at-amazon-dot-com/.
4   Jeff Bezos, “Letter to Shareholders,” 2006,
    https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1018724/000119312507093886/dex9
    91.htm.
5   “Amazon.com Launches Web Services; Developers Can Now Incorporate
    Amazon.com Content and Features into Their Own Web Sites; Extends
    ‘Welcome Mat’ for Developers,” press release, Amazon press center, July 16,
    2002, https://press.aboutamazon.com/news-releases/news-release-
    details/amazoncom-launches-web-services.
6   “Amazon.com Web Services Announces Trio of Milestones—New Tool Kit,
    Enhanced Web Site and 25,000 Developers in the Program,” press release,
    Amazon press center, May 19, 2003, https://press.aboutamazon.com/news-
    releases/news-release-details/amazoncom-web-services-announces-trio-
    milestones-new-tool-kit.
7   Jeff Bezos, “Letter to Shareholders,” 2015,
    https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1018724/000119312516530910/d168
    744dex991.htm.
8 Werner Vogels, “10 Lessons from 10 Years of Amazon Web Services,” All
  Things Distributed, March 11, 2016,
  https://www.allthingsdistributed.com/2016/03/10-lessons-from-10-years-of-
  aws.html.
Appendix B
1   David Glick, “When I was at #Amazon, one of my monikers was ‘Godfather of
    Tenets,’” LinkedIn, edited March 2020,
    https://www.linkedin.com/posts/davidglick1_amazon-tenets-jeffbezos-activity-
    6631036863471849472-IO5E/.
2   “Jeff Bezos on Leading for the Long-Term at Amazon,” HBR IdeaCast,
    https://hbr.org/podcast/2013/01/jeff-bezos-on-leading-for-the (accessed May 19,
    2019).
3   Peter de Jonge, “Riding the Wild, Perilous Waters of Amazon.com,” New York
    Times, March 14, 1999,
    https://archive.nytimes.com/www.nytimes.com/library/tech/99/03/biztech/articl
    es/14amazon.html.
4   “Amazon Certified Frustration-Free Packaging Programs,”
    https://www.amazon.com/b/?&node=5521637011#ace-5421475708 (accessed
    June 30, 2020).
Index


The index that appeared in the print version of this title does
not match the pages in your e-book. Please use the search
function on your e-reading device to search for terms of
interest. For your reference, the terms that appear in the print
index are listed below.
Add to Cart button
Alexa (voice assistant technology)
Allgor, Alison
Amazon Associates Program
Amazon Auctions
Amazon Digital Media
 Customer Obsession leadership principle
 history and origins of
 press release approach development and
 See also Kindle
Amazon EC2 (Elastic Compute Cloud)
Amazon Echo
Amazon Leadership Principles
 Are Right, A Lot
 Being Vocally Self-Critical (later dopped)
 Bias for Action
 Customer Obsession
 Deliver Results
 Dive Deep
 Earn Trust
 Frugality
 Have Backbone; Disagree and Commit
 Hire and Develop the Best
 history and origins of
 Insist on the Highest Standards
 Invent and Simplify
 Learn and Be Curious
 Mechanisms and
 Ownership
 Press Release/Frequently Asked Questions (PR/FAQ) process and
 six-page narratives and
 Think Big
Amazon Music
Amazon Prime
 click-to-ship and
 Customer Obsession leadership principle
 Fast Track program and
 free shipping
 Have Backbone; Disagree and Commit leadership principle
 history and origins of
 “house-on-fire” email
 launch of
 loyalty programs and
 need for growth as impetus for
 Super Saver Shipping
 walking the store
Amazon Prime Video
 devices and
 history and origins of
 LOVEFiLM and
 Netflix and
 Press Release/Frequently Asked Questions process
 Prime Instant Video (free video benefit)
 rebuffering
 rights management software (DRM)
 Unbox and
 value chain
 See also Amazon Studios
Amazon Product API
Amazon Puck
Amazon S3 (Simple Storage Service)
Amazon Seller API
Amazon Studios
Amazon Unbox
Amazon Video On Demand (VOD). See also Amazon Prime Video
Amazon Web Services (AWS)
 Amazon Associates Program and
 Amazon EC2 (Elastic Compute Cloud)
 Amazon Lite
 Amazon Product API
 Amazon S3 (Simple Storage Service)
 Bias for Action leadership principle
 data storage and
 history and origins of
 influences on
 Invent and Simplify leadership principle
 launch of
 Press Release/Frequently Asked Questions process
 primitives (building blocks) and
 single-threaded leadership and
 software developer kit (SDK)
 3-Ring Binder and
 Working Backwards and
Amazon zShops
Amazonian, being. See being Amazonian
Andon Cord
Andrulevich, Robin
annual planning process
  OP1
  OP2
  S-Team goals
Anthony, Felix
application program interfaces (APIs)
  Amazon Product API
  Amazon Seller API
  definition of
  dependencies and
  Green Corp. example
  two-pizza teams and
Are Right, A Lot leadership principle
Baker & Taylor
Bar Raiser (Amazon’s hiring process)
  Behavioral Interviewing
  Debrief/Hiring Meeting
  diversity and
  Hire and Develop the Best leadership principle and
  hiring at Amazon before Bar Raiser
  history and origins of
  In-House Interview Loop
  Job Description (JD)
  Offer Through Onboarding
  Phone Screen
  purpose of
  Reference Check
  resistance to
  Résumé Review
  STAR (Situation, Task, Action, Result) interviewing method
  steps in
  variations on
  Written Feedback
  See also hiring process, conventional
Bar Raiser Core
Bar Raisers
Barnes & Noble
Behavioral Interviewing
being Amazonian
  Amazon Web Services and
  anecdotes and exception reporting
  Bar Raiser (hiring process) and
  budgets and
  company culture and
  compensation and
  controllable input metrics and
  core competencies
  customer obsession
  Day One mentality and
  flywheel and
  Just Do It Award
 leadership principles and
 long-term thinking
 morale and
 operational excellence
 patience and
 PowerPoint and
 pricing and
 Prime and
 “relentlessly”
 single-threaded leadership and
 S-Team goals and
 “strong general athlete” (SGA)
 suggestions for getting started
 “Unless you know better ones”
 “unreasonably high”
 willingness to invent
 Working Backwards and
Bell, Charlie
Best Buy
Bewkes, Jeff
Bezos, Jeff
 on Amazon as “invention machine”
 on “Amazon flywheel”
 Amazon Web Services and
 application program interfaces (APIs) and
 Colin as Jeff’s shadow
 on corporate culture
 on Day One mentality
 feedback given by
 Fire Phone and
 hiring process and
 job descriptions written by
 Kindle and
 on long-term thinking
 metrics and
 on missionaries
 origins of Amazon
 origins of Amazon Leadership Principles
 on perfection and high standards
 Press Release/Frequently Asked Questions process and
 Prime and
 Prime Video and
 single-threaded leadership and
 S-Team and
 on tenets
 two-pizza teams and
 on underpromising and overdelivering
 Working Backwards and
Bezos, MacKenzie. See MacKenzie Scott
Bias for Action leadership principle
Black Lives Matter movement
BlackBerry
Blu-ray player
Brethes, Thierry
brick-and-mortar stores
Brown, Alan
Butterfield, Stewart
Buy Now button
Career Choice
cashierless stores
Child, Jason
click-to-ship
cognitive biases
  confirmation bias
  personal bias
  urgency bias
Collins, Jim
compensation
  as foundational mechanism of Leadership Principles
  long-term equity structure
  long-term thinking reinforced by
  misalignment and
  performance and
confirmation bias
Contribution Profit (CP)
corporate culture
Customer Connection
Customer Obsession leadership principle
customer service
Dalzell, Rick
Day One mentality
DB Cabal (review team)
Debrief/Hiring Meeting (Bar Raiser step)
decision-making 262
Deliver Results leadership principle
delivery services, third-party
dependencies
  definition of
  example of
  New Project Initiatives (NPI) and
  organizational dependencies
  Press Release/Frequently Asked Questions process and
  relational database
  single-threaded leadership and
  software code
  technical dependencies
  two-pizza teams and
Digital Media. See Amazon Digital Media
disaster meetings
Disney
Disney+
Dive Deep leadership principle
Door Desk Award
Dornfest, Rael
E Ink
Earn Trust leadership principle
eBay
Evans, Ethan
FairPlay
Fast Track In Stock (Amazon program)
Fire Phone
Fire Tablet
Fire TV
Flickr
flywheel of growth
Frederick, Rob
Freed, Ian
Freeman, Jim
Frugality leadership principle
Frustration-Free Packaging Initiative
Fulfillment by Amazon (FBA)
George, Mike
Gleeson, Brent
Glick, Dave
good intentions
Greeley, Greg
groupthink
Hart, Greg
Have Backbone; Disagree and Commit leadership principle
HBO
HBO Max
Hire and Develop the Best leadership principle
hiring process, conventional
  at Amazon (before Bar Raiser)
  drawbacks of
  Green Corp. example
  interview loop
  personal bias
  urgency bias and
  See also Bar Raiser (Amazon’s hiring process)
Holden, Jeff
House of Cards (Netflix original series)
Hughes, Howard
Hulu
IMDb
Ingram
In-House Interview Loop (Bar Raiser step)
Insist on the Highest Standards leadership principle
Instacart
interview feedback examples
  good feedback
  weak feedback
interview loop. See also In-House Interview Loop (Bar Raiser step)
Invent and Simplify leadership principle
Janes, Cameron
Jassy, Andy
Jenson, Warren
Job Description (Bar Raiser step)
Jobs, Steve
Just Do It Award
Kaphan, Shel
Kenswil, Larry
Kessel, Steve
Kilar, Jason
Killalea, Tom
Kindle
 Amazon Digital and
 design process
 E Ink
 history and origins of
 keyboard
 Lab126
 launch of
 Oprah and
 Press Release/Frequently Asked Questions process and
 pricing
 3G modem
 title availability
 value chain and
 Whispernet and wireless delivery
Kindle Direct Publishing
Kindle Fire Tablet
Kramer, Josh
Leadership Principles. See Amazon Leadership Principles
Learn and Be Curious leadership principle
Limp, Dave
Look Inside the Book feature
loyalty programs. See also Amazon Prime
Mechanisms
 Amazon Leadership Principles and
 annual planning process
 compensation plan
 S-Team goals
metrics
 Amazon flywheel
 Amazon history and origins of
 anatomy of metrics chart
 anecdote and
 correct, controllable input metrics
 the deck (data package)
 DMAIC (Define-Measure-Analyze-Improve-Control)
 DMAIC analyze stage
 DMAIC control stage
 DMAIC define stage
 DMAIC improve stage
 DMAIC measure stage
 Fast Track In Stock and
 life cycle of
 output and input metrics
 pitfall of disaster meetings
 pitfall of noise obscuring signal
 weekly and monthly metrics on single graph
 at Weekly Business Review meetings
 year-over-year (YOY) trends
microservices-based architecture
Microsoft Excel
MIT Media Lab
Mobipocket
mock-ups
Music 2.0 (digital music industry conference)
Napster
Narrative Information Multiplier
narratives
  sample narrative tenets and FAQs
  See also Press Release/Frequently Asked Questions process (PR/FAQ); six-pager
NBC
NBC Universal
Netflix
  House of Cards (original series)
  Watch Now (video streaming service)
New Project Initiatives (NPI)
  choosing our priorities with
  force-ranking our options with
News Corp
Nichols, Dorothy
Nintendo Wii
noise obscuring signal
Obidos
Offer Through Onboarding (Bar Raiser step)
1-Click button
operating plan
  annual planning process
  OP1 process
  OP2
O’Reilly, Tim
O’Reilly Emerging Technology conference
O’Reilly Group
Ownership leadership principle
Palm Computing
Peacock (NBC’s streaming service)
performance metrics
personal bias
Phone Screen (Bar Raiser step)
Piacentini, Diego
PlayStation
PowerPoint (PP)
  drawbacks of
  six-pager compared with
  in S-Team meetings
pre-authorization, credit card
Press Release/Frequently Asked Questions process (PR/FAQ)
  Amazon Leadership Principles and
  Amazon Web Services and
  dependencies and
  example of Melinda (Smart Mailbox)
  FAQ components
  features and benefits
  Fire Phone and
  history and origins of
  Kindle and
  narrative forms and
  PowerPoint compared with
  press release components
  price and
  Prime and
  Prime Video and
  process and product
  Working Backwards and
Price, Roy
Prime. See Amazon Prime
Prime Video. See Amazon Prime Video
product development
Pushbutton
Rachmeler, Kim
Ravindran, Vijay
rebuffering
Reference Check (Bar Raiser step)
RemoteLoad
Résumé Review (Bar Raiser step)
rights management software (DRM)
Ring Doorbell
Ringewald, Erich
Risher, David
risk-taking
Roku
Rose, Dan
Roseman, Neil
S-Team
  annual planning role
  compensation
  as foundational mechanism of Leadership Principles
  four-hour meetings
  goals
  Kindle and
  members
  PowerPoint and
  Prime and
  single-threaded leadership
  six-pagers and
  two-pizza teams and
S-Team goals
  Amazon Digital and
  annual planning process
  Dive Deep leadership principle and
  finance team’s tracking of
  growth and evolution of
  high bar for
  input-focused metrics
  multiple
  SMART (Specific, Measurable, Attainable, Relevant, and Timely)
Scott, MacKenzie
Search Inside the Book feature
Self-Service Order Fulfillment (SSOF)
Sequoia Capital
sideloading
Siegel, H. B.
single-threaded leadership
  being Amazonian and
  flexibility of size
  Fulfillment by Amazon and
  history and origins of
  rewards of
  separability and
  two-pizza teams and
  See also dependencies; New Project Initiatives (NPI); two-pizza teams (2PTL)
Six Sigma
six-pager
  advantages for presenters
  advantages for readers
  conducting meetings with
  FAQ
  feedback and
  ideas prioritized over presenters
  varied structure and content of
  writing an effective six-pager
  See also Tufte, Edward
Slack
smart lock technology
SMART (Specific, Measurable, Attainable, Relevant, and Timely) S-Team goals
Socratic method
Sony Bravia
Sony Reader
Spacey, Kevin
Spiegel, Joel
Spillman, Sarah
STAR (Situation, Task, Action, Result) interviewing method
Starz
Strout, Kristin
Super Saver Shipping
Szkutak, Tom
Taylor, Tom
technical program managers (TPMs)
Think Big leadership principle
timeline
TiVo
Toyota
transactional video on demand (TVOD)
Tufte, Edward
Twitch
two-pizza teams (2PTL)
  Amazon Digital and
  autonomous teams
  challenges of
  characteristics, workflow, and management of
  course correction and
  history and origins of
  Inventory Planning team
  Mobipocket team
  Order Pipeline and Payments teams
  Picking Team example
  single-threaded leadership and
Universal Music Group
urgency bias
U.S. Postal Service
Vermeulen, Al
Vlastelica, John
Vogels, Werner
Voice of the Customer
Walmart
Ward, Charlie
Warner (Music Group)
Warner Bros.
Weekly Business Review (WBR)
Wheeler, Donald
Whispernet
white paper
whiteboard
Wilke, Jeff
Working Backwards
 Amazon Digital and
 Amazon Web Services and
 history and origins of
 Kindle press release and
 See also Press Release/Frequently Asked Questions process (PR/FAQ)
Worldwide Consumer
Worldwide Operations
Worldwide Retail
Wright, Robin
Written Feedback (Bar Raiser step)
Xbox
XML
YouTube
Zappos
Zehr, Gregg
             About the Authors




COLIN BRYAR joined Amazon in 1998—four years
after its founding—and spent the next twelve years as
part of Amazon’s senior leadership team as Amazon
grew from a domestic (US-only) seller of books to a
global, multi-dimensional powerhouse and innovator.
For two of his years at Amazon, Colin was chief of
staff to Jeff Bezos, aka “Jeff’s shadow,”during which he
spent each day attending meetings, traveling, and
discussing business and life with Jeff. After Amazon,
he and his family relocated to Singapore for two years
where Colin served as chief operating officer of e-
commerce company RedMart, which was subsequently
sold to Alibaba. Colin is co-founder of Working
Backwards LLC where he coaches executives at both
large and early stage companies on how to implement
the management practices developed at Amazon. You
can sign up for email updates here.
BILL CARR joined Amazon in 1999 and spent more
than fifteen years with the company. As vice president
of Digital Media, Bill launched and managed the
company’s global digital music and video businesses,
including Amazon Music, Prime Video, and Amazon
Studios. After Amazon, Bill was an executive in
residence with Maveron, LLC, an early stage,
consumer-only venture capital firm. Bill later served as
the chief operating officer of OfferUp, the largest
mobile marketplace for local buyers and sellers in the
United States. Today Bill is co-founder of Working
Backwards LLC, where he coaches executives at both
large and early stage companies on how to implement
the management practices developed at Amazon. You
can sign up for email updates here.
         Thank you for buying this
          St. Martin’s Press ebook.


   To receive special offers, bonus content,
and info on new releases and other great reads,
         sign up for our newsletters.




             Or visit us online at
     us.macmillan.com/newslettersignup


For email updates on Colin Bryar, click here.
  For email updates on Bill Carr, click here.
Contents


Title Page
Copyright Notice
Dedication
Introduction
                         Part One
                    BEING AMAZONIAN
Introduction to Part One
1. Building Blocks: Leadership Principles and Mechanisms
2. Hiring: Amazon’s Unique Bar Raiser Process
3. Organizing: Separable, Single-Threaded Leadership
4. Communicating: Narratives and the Six-Pager
5. Working Backwards: Start with the Desired Customer
   Experience
6. Metrics: Manage Your Inputs, Not Your Outputs

                         Part Two
          THE INVENTION MACHINE AT WORK
Introduction to Part Two
7. Kindle
8. Prime
9. Prime Video
10. AWS
Conclusion: Being Amazonian Beyond Amazon
Appendix A: Interview Feedback Examples
Appendix B: Sample Narrative Tenets and FAQs
Appendix C: Timeline of Events in the Book
Acknowledgments
Notes
Index
About the Authors
Copyright
First published in the United States by St. Martin’s Press, an imprint of
St. Martin’s Publishing Group
WORKING BACKWARDS. Copyright © 2021 by Working Backwards LLC.
All rights reserved. Printed in the United States of America. For
information, address St. Martin’s Publishing Group, 120 Broadway,
New York, NY 10271.
www.stmartins.com
Cover design by Jonathan Bush
Cover image: arrow © Mela_art/Shutterstock; barcode ©
ace03/Shutterstock
The Library of Congress has cataloged the hardcover edition as
follows:
Names: Bryar, Colin, author. | Carr, Bill, 1967- author.
Title: Working backwards: insights, stories, and secrets from inside
   Amazon / Colin Bryar and Bill Carr.
Description: First edition. | New York : St. Martin’s Press, 2021. |
  Includes bibliographical references and index. |
Identifiers: LCCN 2020037477 | ISBN 9781250267597 (hardcover) |
  ISBN 9781250275714 (international, sold outside the U.S., subject to
  rights availability) | ISBN 9781250267603 (ebook)
Subjects: LCSH: Amazon.com (Firm)—Management. | Electronic
  commerce—Management. | Leadership. | Corporate culture. |
  Decision making. | Success in business.
Classification: LCC HF5548.32 .B795 2021 | DDC 381/.14206573—
  dc23
LC record available at https://lccn.loc.gov/2020037477
eISBN 9781250267603
Our ebooks may be purchased in bulk for promotional, educational, or
business use. Please contact the Macmillan Corporate and Premium
Sales Department at 1-800-221-7945, extension 5442, or by email at
MacmillanSpecialMarkets@macmillan.com.
First Edition: 2021
* In his shareholder letter of April 16, 2020, shortly after the outbreak of the
 coronavirus pandemic, Jeff Bezos did address Amazon’s impact on multiple
 fronts. He described the company’s efforts to answer the increased demand on
 Amazon’s services by people in lockdown. He described safety measures at
 fulfillment centers, an accelerated Amazon program to ramp up testing, and the
 partnership of Amazon Web Services with the WHO and other health
 organizations. He announced a two-dollar increase in Amazon’s minimum wage,
 and the doubling of its overtime pay. The letter also outlined the company’s
 Climate Pledge—to move to 80 percent renewable energy by 2024 and to achieve
 net zero carbon by 2040. For details on these and other efforts by Amazon to
 improve the lives of its workers, its customers, and the human population in
 general,     see      https://blog.aboutamazon.com/company-news/2019-letter-to-
 shareholders.
* Nancy Duarte, Slide:ology: The Art and Science of Creating Great Presentations
 (Sebastopol, CA: O’Reilly Media, 2008), 7.
* If you, like the CEO mentioned at the beginning of the chapter, still insist that the
  company stock price be hand-delivered to you each morning, you should require
  that the paper be printed at exactly the same time each day, insist that the paper
  have a time stamp on it, and once in a while look at the price at the stated
  collection time yourself to see if it trues up with what’s on the paper you’ve been
  handed. We don’t recommend this process, but it’s better than what was there
  before!
* A few years before Amazon Prime launched, we tested a promotion where if you
 ordered two books, shipping would be free. We immediately noticed that a $0.49
 book shot to the top of the bestseller chart. It didn’t take long to figure out that
 enterprising customers would choose the book they wanted, then add this $0.49
 book to their shopping cart to get free shipping. We called this the “Book of
 Hope.” Cost following would make gaming the system in this way impossible.
